# 1091

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1091 Series of 2020

Subject: Exclusion of Debt Securities Held by Market Makers from the Single Borrowers Limit (SBL)

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 899 dated 16 July 2020, approved the amendments to relevant provisions of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financia! Institutions (MORNBFI) to exclude the debt securities held by market makers from the credit exposure limit to a single borrower.

Section 1. Section 362/342-Q of the MORB/MORNBFI is hereby amended to ### read as follows:

### 362/342-Q CREDIT EXPOSURE LIMITS TO A SINGLE BORROWER

### XXX Exclusions from loan limit. xxx

a, XXX ### XXX

k. /f. Debt securities acquired as a result of market making activities pursuant to the rules and guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the market or exchange? where such securities are traded and/or ### enrolled, Provided, That:

(1) The market-making positions shall be taken up in the trading book in accordance with Sec. 614/614-Q on investment activities of Bangko Sentral Supervised Financial Institution (BSFI);

(2) The market-making positions shall be properly identified and segregated from the BSFi’s proprietary positions; and

(3) The BSFI shall periodically monitor the market value of the subject debt securities and the number of days the securities have been outstanding from date of acquisition.

Provided, further, That the subject debt securities shall be excluded from the SBL for a period not exceeding the number of calendar days, as indicated ### below, from date of acquisition:

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines * {632) 708-7701 * www.bsp.gov.ph * bspmail@bsp gov.ph

## Page 2

Calendar Days 90 days 1 August 2020 — 31 July 2021 60 days 1 August 2021 onwards

### XXX 1/ It should be organized in accordance with the SEC rules and regulation

Section 2. Effectivity. This Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days after its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

cece ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

1 _ july 2020

Page 2 of 2 