# 1096

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1096 Series of 2020

Subject: Semestral Submission of Reconciliation Statement by Banks/Quasi-Banks on their Demand Deposit Account Maintained with the Bangko Sentral

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1151 dated 10 September 2020, approved the amendments to the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) to implement the semestral submission of the Reconciliation Statement by banks and quasi-banks (QBs) on their Demand Deposit Account (DDA) maintained with the BSP.

Section 1. Section 315/312-Q of the MORB/MORNEBFI shall be amended to include _ .

### the provisions on the DDA Reconciliation Statement, and shall now read, as follows: ### 315/312-Q INTERBANK LOANS ### XXX

Accounting procedures.

### XXX

c. Banks/QBs shall reconcile their demand deposit accounts/DDAs with the : Bangko Sentral against monthly statements of account to be furnished by the Bangko Sentral Financial Accounting Department, Comptrollership Sub-Sector. In relation to this, banks/QBs shall submit a DDA Reconciliation Statement on solo basis as indicated in Appendix 7/Q-3.1 The submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement shall be subject to the provisions of Sec. 171/172-Q.

Settlement procedures for interbank loan transactions. xxx ### XXX “The regular submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement shall commence starting

with the semester ending 31 December 2021.”

Section 2. Appendix 7 “Reports Required of Banks” and Appendix Q-3 “List of Reports Required from Quasi-Banks” of the MORB/MORNBEFI are hereby amended as shown in Annex A and Annex B, respectively.

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines ¢ (632) 708-7701 » www.bsp.gov.ph © bspmail@bsp.gav.ph

## Page 2

Section 3. The reportorial template of the DDA Reconciliation Statement is shown under Annex C.

Section 4. Effectivity

This Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days following its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

ce

### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO - Governor september 2020

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

Annex A

Appendix 7 of the MORB — Reports Required of Banks

I Frequency I Submission Deadline

ee ee ee ee Xxx

Sec. 105 BSP-Supervised Institutions Quarterly 20 banking days after end of (M-17 dated I (BSFls) Consolidated each reference quarter 17 May Complaints Report

A. UBs/KBs

Secondary Reports

aa

oe

Category I FormNo. I MOR Ref. Report Title

Secondary Reports

Section 315 I DDA Reconciliation

Statement?

provided by FSS

Unnumbered (M-002 dated Stress testing Reports Semestral 30 banking days from 01.27.14, Covering Credit and Market end of reference stresstesting@bsp.gov.ph

M-032 3 dated Risks semester 08.11.14 as

amended by Cir. a. Covering Credit & Market

Nos. 890 dated Risks Stand-alone TBs with

11.02.15, 963

1The regular submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement shall commence as of the end-December 2021 reporting period.

## Page 4

Annex A

Submission Deadline Submission Procedure

C. RBs and Coop Banks I Category I FormNo. I MORRef. Submission Deadline Secondary Reports

pv ee we eT

aa Sec. 148 Disruptions of financial services and As disruptions Within two 0) hours upon

operations. occur discovery Unnumbered Section 315

Within twenty-four (24) hours from discovery

The regular submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement shall commence as of the end-December 2021 reporting period.

3 The regular submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement shall commence as of the end-December 2021 reporting period.

dated 06.27.17 and M-028 dated 09.11.17)

Report Title

total assets of at least P5.0 billion; or total cap of at least P1.0 billion

b. Credit Risk Only Stand-alone TBs that did not qualify above

Unnumbered Section 315 DDA Reconciliation Semestral 15° banking day from I Email address will be Statement? end of reference I provided by FSS semester

Submission Procedure

citsg@bsp.gov.ph

citsg@bsp.gov.ph

15" banking day from end I Email address will be of reference semester provided by FSS

Semestral

DDA Reconciliation Statement?

## Page 5

Annex B

Appendix Q-3 of the MORNEEFI — List of Reports Required from Quasi-Banks

Category I I FormNo. —__—s«Iss« MOR Ref. Report Title I Frequency I Submission Deadline I Submission Procedure Secondary Reports ee ee ee Xxx a ee

aa 435-Q Report on Required and 3 banking days after end Fax to SDC @ (02) 708-

Available Reserves on Peso- of reference week Pf 7554

Denominated CTFs, Such Other Unnumbered 312-Q DDA Reconciliation Statement* Semestral 15* business day from Email address will be end of reference semester I provided by FSS

Similarly Managed Peso Funds and TOFA-Others

### Email to SDC: srso-nbqb@bsp.gov.ph

Control Prooflist duly signed by the authorized officer of the institution

“The regular submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement shall commence as of the end-December 2021 reporting period.

## Page 6

Annex C Category: Category B Deadline: 15% banking/business

day from end of reference semester

Submission: Email to DSA

### FOR ALL BANKS AND QUASI-BANKS

Name of Bank/QB

### DDA RECONCILIATION STATEMENT

(Semester Ended)

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES)

) ### S.S.

t solemnly swear that all matters set forth in this report are true and correct, to the best of my knowledge and belief.

(Signature of Duly-Authorized Officer)

## Page 7

Bank/Quasi-Bank Name DDA Reconciliation Statement For the Semester Ended In Absolute Amounts

Demand Deposit Account with the BSP Per BSP Statement of Account f Demand Deposit Account with the BSP Per Bank Ledger PF Reconciling Items - Reconciling Items - [Adjusted Balance of Demand Deposit Account withthe BSP Balance of Demand Deposit Account with the BSP [Adjusted Balance of Demand Deposit AccountwiththeBSP_ I Adjusted Balance of Demand Deposit Account with the BSP PF

Note: Please indicate the details of items that are added/deducted in the spaces provided

