# 1106

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1106 Series of 2020

Subject: Restructured Service Fees for Banks’ Deposit and Withdrawal Transactions

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1658 dated 17 December 2020, approved the following amendments to the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) on the: (a) restructuring of service fees for banks’ deposit and withdrawal transactions with the Bangko Sentral, (b) reinstatement of the service fees on new and fit banknote withdrawals, (c) provision of rebates, refunds, and incentives for unfit banknote deposits, and (d) imposition of a penalty for cancelled withdrawal transactions. -

### Section 1. Section 1103 of the MORB is hereby amended to read, as follows: ### 1103 SERVICE FEE FOR TRANSACTIONS WITH THE BANGKO SENTRAL

The succeeding provisions under this Section provide the guidelines on the imposition of service fee on transaction of banks with the Cash Department (CD), Metro Manila Currency Operations Sub-Sector (MCOSS) and the Regional Offices and Branches, Regional Operations Sub-Sector (ROSS). The guidelines and procedures governing currency deposits and withdrawals of banks are provided in Appendix 84.

Fee structure on services offered by the CD, MCOSS and Bangko Sentral Regional Offices and Branches, ROSS. The following shall govern the transactions of ### banks with CD, MCOSS and Regional Offices and Branches, ROSS:

### a. Service fees for banknote deposits:

Type of Transaction Applicable Service Fees Fit banknote deposits PHP200 per bundle

Unit banknote deposi I ee Mixed banknote deposits’ banknote deposits verified banknote deposits verified?

1 Only applicable to the Cash Department

2? Deposits classified as fit banknotes but found to include unfit banknote deposit shall be reclassified as mixed banknotes and accordingly charged an additional fee of PHP40.00 per bundle (Total fee of PHP240 less the PHP200 fee paid for deposit of fit banknotes).

A. Mabini St. Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines ¢ (632) 8708-7701 » www.bsp.gov.ph « bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

b. Reinstatement of Service fees for new and fit banknote withdrawals with ### modifications:

c. Penalty of PHP5,000.00 for every cancelled withdrawal transaction;

d. Provision for rebates, refunds and incentives for unfit banknote deposits ### which banks may avail within three (3) years:

Incentive for Unfit Banknote Denomination I Bundle of Unfit Deposits (in PHP)? Deposits in Excess of Total

I New Withdrawals (per bundle, in PHP)? I S00 ooo I 80000 I SSF I SO] tf OOP SOS [I oO OO SO 1/ Rebate/Refund shall be based on total banknote withdrawals (fit and new) 2/ Total incentives shall not exceed total service fees of bank on withdrawal transactions

Section 2. This restructured service fees shall be implemented by the Cash Department, BSP, fifteen (15) calendar days following the publication of the Circular in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation. The BSP Regional Offices and Branches shall implement the restructured service fees starting 01 June 2021.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

coef ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

22, December 2020 