# 1110

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. _1110

Series of 2021

Subject: Rationalization of Prudential Reporting Requirements

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 174 dated 11 February 2021, approved the amendments to selected Appendices (Reports Required from Banks and Reports Required from Quasi Banks) and other relevant Sections of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) as part of the report rationalization initiative of the Bangko Sentral.

Section 1. Policy Statement. Recognizing the significant developments in the regulatory and business environment, the Bangko Sentral is continuously reviewing the prudential reports required from Bangko Sentral supervised financial institutions (BSPFls) to ensure that information being gathered remains relevant to the surveillance and supervisory functions of the Bangko Sentral. The report rationalization initiative also aims to contribute to continuing adherence to internationally recognized standards and practices on data aggregation and governance as well as to promote ease of doing business of BSFls.

Section 2. Reports Required of Banks and Non-Bank Financial Institutions. Appendix 7 of the MORB and Appendices Q-3, S-2 and N-1 of the MORNBFI are hereby amended by deleting selected reports listed in “Annex A”. Appendix 7 of the MORB is also amended by inserting a new certification report, which is codified as Appendix 142 of the MORB, as shown in “Annex B”. All references to deleted reports listed in Annex A and embodied in various sections of the MORB and MORNBFI are likewise deleted.

### Section 3. Section 346 on of the MORB is hereby amended to read, as follows: ### 346 PROCEDURAL AND REPORTORIAL REQUIREMENTS

### XXX

Reportorial requirements. xxx

Certification on Loans and Other Credit Accommodations to Directors, Officers, Stockholders and Their Related Interests/Subsidiaries/Affiliates. All banks~ shall submit a Certification (Appendix 142) that it has fully complied with the provisions of Part III.D of this Manual on Loans and Other Credit Accommodations to Directors, Officers, Stockholders and Their Related Interests/ Subsidiaries/Affiliates. This certification is considered as Category A-3 report and shall be submitted to the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral fifteen (15) banking days after end of the reference semester.

## Page 2

Section 4. This circular shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

### GC €SY' ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

14 February 2021

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines*(632) 87087701*www.bsp.gov.ph*bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 3

DCB I/Ii Form 5

Sections 345 and 413 (BSP-7-16-07-A) CRON eres

(MoRB)

DCB I/ll Farm 5A

(BSP-7-16-07-B) Sections 344 and 413

### (MORB)

Sections 344 and 413 ### (MORB)

SES I/VI Form 5A.1 ### (BSP-716-07B.1)

DCB I/Il Form SB ### (BSP-7-16-13) (For U/KBs)

Sections 346 and 413 ### (MORB)

DCB I/Il Form SB TB Form 8 (For TBs)

Sections 346 and 413 ### (MORB)

DCB 1/Il Form SB TB Form 9 (For TBs)

Sections 346 and 413 ### (MORB)

: ~ Bi ~ a - ~ a

Section 276 Appendix 7

Section 172-Q BSErr26 15 Section 4192 (IH only)

OCB I/Il Form SB RB/COB Form 4B (For RBs/CBs)

Sections 346 and 413 ### (MORB)

DCB I/Il Form 5B RB/COB Form 4B {For RBs/CBs)

Sections 346 and 413 ### (MORB)

Appendices Q-3, ### $-2, N-1

Appendices Q-3, ### $-2, N-1

~ a

Lammers I ee

11 SEC Form

Section 418 - MORB (As amended by M-020 dated 04.22.14, Cir No.890 dated 11.02.15. Cir. No. 963 dated 06.27.17 and M-028 dated 09.11.17

Unnumbered

Annex A

### REPORTS FOR DELETION

Relevant Category Report Title Appendix

### ~ E

je om Ei ™ a

: ~~ Bi ; ~ Ei

Daily Report on Compliance with Aggregate Ceiling on Direct/Indirect Credit Accommodations to Directors/Officers/Stockholders (DOSRI), Secured andUnsecured Loans

Daily Report on Compliance with Ceiling on Outstanding Unsecured Direct and Indirect Credit Accommodations to Directors/Officers/Stockholders (DOSRI)

Daily Report on Compliance with Individual Ceilings on Direct/Indirect Credit Accommodations to DOSRI, secured and unsecured loans together with a certification by authorized signatories that no one has exceeded the prescribed individual ceilings

Consolidated Report on Compliance With Aggregate Ceiling on Credit Accommodations to DOSRI

Consolidated Report an Compliance With Aggregate Ceiling on Direct

uarterl Credit Accommodations ta DOSRI Auarterty

Consolidated Report on Compliance With Individual Ceiling on Direct Credit Accommodations to DOSRI

Consolidated Report on Compliance with Individual Ceiling on Direct Credit Accommodations to DOSRI

i 5 eS PR i: 2 Quarterly 1- Compliance with Individual Ceiling on Credit Accommodations to

DOosRI

Consolidated Report on the Compliance with Aggregate Ceiling on Credit Accommodations to DOSRI

Schedules: can I 1-Secured and Unsecured DOSRI Loans

Certification of Compliance with Section 55.4 of R.A. No. 8791 prohibits banks from employing casual, non-regular personnel

Report on Underwriting Activities Quarterly

Annually upon occurrence of

Stockholders’ Meeting or if changes occur

Report on Peso-Denominated Common Trust Fund and Other Similarly Managed Funds (CTF) (for U/KBs)

### REPORT FOR INCLUSION

Certification on Loans and Other Credit Accommodations to Directors, Officers, Stockholders and their Related

a — : fas I antic I ae I

Interests/Subsisdiaries/Affiliates

## Page 4

Annex B

### APPENDIX 142

### CERTIFICATION ON LOANS AND OTHER CREDIT ACCOMMODATIONS TO DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, ### STOCKHOLDERS AND THEIR RELATED INTERESTS/SUBSIDIARIES/AFFILIATES (Appendix to 346 on Certification on Loans and Other Credit Accommodations to Directors, Officers, Stockholders and Their Related interests/Subsidiaries/Affiliates)

Name of Bank

### CERTIFICATION

Pursuant to the requirements under Part lil. D of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB), I hereby certify

that (bank name) has complied with prudential requirements on granting loans and other accommodations

to directors, officers, stockholders and their related interests/subsidiaries/affiliates (DOSRI) on all banking

days of the semester ended (reporting period).

Signature over Printed Name

Authorized Officer/ Position of Officer 