# 1123

## Page 1

### dated 3 December 2019, is hereby amended to read, as follows:

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR NO. _ 123 Series of 2021

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

Subject: Amendments to Guidelines on Report on Intraday Liquidity of Universal and Commercial Banks (UBs/KBs) and their Subsidiary Banks/Quasi-Banks (QBs)

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 886 dated 8 July 2021 approved the amendments to the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) on the Report on Intraday Liquidity.

Section 1. Footnote to Section 145/145-Q of the MORB/MORNBEFI on the transitory provision of the Report on Intraday Liquidity, as amended under ### Circular No. 1064 dated 3 December 2019, is hereby amended to read, as follows:

‘The regular submission of the Report on Intraday Liquidity shall commence with the end-January 2022 month-end report with submission deadline as prescribed under Appendix 7/Q-3.”

Section 2. Footnote to Part V of Appendix 71/Q-43 of the MORB/MORNBEFI, as amended by Circular No. 1064 dated 3 December 2019, is ### hereby amended to read, as follows:

### ‘V. INTRADAY LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT ### XXX

Stand-alone TBs/QBs and all RBs/Coop Banks shall make the abovementioned information available any time upon request of the Bangko Sentral.”

2 Stand-alone TBs/QBs and all RBs/Coop Banks shall be given until end-January 2022 to achieve full compliance with the provisions of this Section.

Section 3. The “Report on Intraday Liquidity” as provided under Appendix 7/Q-3 of the MORB/MORNBFI , as amended under Circular No. 1064

>

. . . * = 2. *

## Page 2

a. Appendix 7 of the MORB- Reports Required of Banks

Report Frequency I Submission I Submission Title Procedure

Report on Monthly I 15 banking e-mail to

Intraday days from DSA Liquidity the end of

the

reference

month!

1 Regular submission of reports shall commence with the end-January 2022 month- end report.

B. TBs

Category Frequency I Submission I Submission No. Deadline Procedure A-l Report on Monthly I 15 banking e-mail to Intraday days from DSA

Liquidity the end of the reference

month!

' Regular submission of reports shall commence with the end-January 2022 month- end report.

b. Appendix Q-3 of the MORNBFI - List of Reports Required from Quasi- Banks

Frequency I Submission I Submission Deadline Procedure 15 banking e-mail to days from DSA the end of the reference

month!

Report on Intraday Liquidity

Monthly

'’ Regular submission of reports shall commence with the end-January 2022 month- end report.

Section 4. Part V of the ‘Guidelines on the Accomplishment of the Report on Intraday Liquidity” as shown in Annex C of Circular No. 1064 dated ### 3 December 2019 is hereby amended to read, as follows:

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

Annex C

### GUIDELINES ON THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THE REPORT ON ### INTRADAY LIQUIDITY

### XXX V. Guidelines on the Preparation of the Report on Intraday Liquidity 1. Reporting Format

A Report on Intraday Liquidity shall be prepared for peso- denominated transactions and for transactions that are of significant currency.

Covered banks/QBs shall prepare the Report on Intraday Liquidity on a solo basis?

2. Amounts Reported

The amounts reported shall be in absolute amount and in the original currency used in the transaction.* As an indicative threshold a currency is considered "significant" if the aggregate liabilities denominated in that currency amount to 5 percent or more of the bank’'s/QB's total liabilities.

### XXX

### XXX

3 Solo basis includes head office plus branches/other offices. xxx.

* Banks/QBs that have transactions in non-significant currencies are still expected to manage intraday liquidity risk in accordance with Section V of Appendix 71/Q-43 of the New Manual of Regulations for Banks (New MORB)/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial institutions (MORNBEFI).

Section 5. This Circular shall take effect on 15 July 2021 after its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

GC Ef ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

3 july 2021

Page 3 of 3 