# 1156

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO.1156 Series of 2022

Subject: Guidelines on the Adoption of the Standard Business Loan Application Form (SBLAF)

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1384 dated 16 September 2022, approved the guidelines on the adoption of the Standard Business Loan Application Form (SBLAF).

Section 1. Section 307/306-Q/308-N of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB)/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) on ### the guidelines on the SBLAF adoption are hereby added to read as follows:

### 307/306-Q/308-N ADOPTION OF THE STANDARD BUSINESS LOAN ### APPLICATION FORM

Policy statement. \t is the thrust of the Bangko Sentral to promote broad and convenient access to high quality financial services and consider the interest of the general public. In line with this, the Bangko Sentral mandates the adoption of a standard business loan application form or SBLAF templates by covered entities in accordance with the parameters and guidelines specified under this Section.

The SBLAF is designed to make the loan application process streamlined and borrower-friendly for its target users, the micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The adoption of the SBLAF templates by covered entities supports the MSMEs’ access to financial products and services by facilitating transparency, ease of understanding, and efficiency in loan applications and processing. It is also expected to enable the covered entities to improve their risk assessment, hasten turnaround time, and facilitate transition to digital loan application platforms. Moreover, the use of SBLAF among covered entities will likewise support data requirements for improved and consistent credit information services.

Towards this end, the Bangko Sentral hereby issues the following guidelines governing the mandatory adoption of the SBLAF.

Definition of Terms. For the purposes of this Section, the following ### definitions shall apply:

a. Business loan - refers to secured or unsecured loans extended to an enterprise and natural person to finance business operations and capital expenditures.

## Page 2

Cooperative - refers to an autonomous and duly registered association of persons as defined under Republic Act (R.A.) No. 9520, otherwise known as the Philippine Cooperative Code of 2008.

Corporation - refers to an artificial being created by operation of law, having the right of succession and the powers, attributes, and properties expressly authorized by law or incidental to its existence as described under R.A. No. 11232, otherwise known as the Revised Corporation Code of the Philippines.

MSMEs - refer to MSMEs as defined in Sec. 332 (Definition of terms) of the MORB.

One Person Corporation - refers to a corporation with a single stockholder as described under R.A. No. 11232.

Partnership - refers to a juridical entity where two or more individuals combine their capital, property, skills or labor, or all of these, for the transaction of a lawful business for gain, upon an understanding that profits or losses shall be shared or borne by them in certain proportions as described under Article 1767 of R.A. No. 386, otherwise known as the Civil Code of the Philippines.

SBLAF - refers to the prescribed templates for loan application which serves as the primary application screening tool to be accomplished by the borrower.

The SBLAF templates have two (2) components: (i) the borrower information sheet; and (ii) the list of supporting documents. Unless otherwise stated, “SBLAF templates” as used in these guidelines collectively refer to these two (2) components.

### There are two kinds of SBLAF based on the type of applicant-borrower:

a) For individual and sole proprietorship, (ISP) (Annex A-1); and b) For cooperative, partnership, and corporation, including one- person corporation (CPC) (Annex A-2).

Startup - refers to any person or registered entity in the Philippines which aims to develop an innovative product, process, or business model as defined under R.A. No. 11337, otherwise known as the Innovative Startup Act, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

Sole proprietorship - refers to a business structure owned by an individual who has full control and authority over the business.

Secured loan - refers to a loan or a portion thereof which is secured by a or combination of physical collateral, financial guarantee, or other instruments, that are enforceable, realizable, and marketable and meets the standards prescribed under Secs. 143/143-Q/I22-N (Credit granting and loan evaluation/analysis process and underwriting standards) and 303/302-Q/304-N of the MORB/MORNBEFI.

Unsecured /oan - refers to a loan or a portion thereof which is not secured in accordance with item “j” above.

Page 2 of 5

## Page 3

Scope of Application.

Covered entities. The guidelines shall be applicable to the following BSFls offering business loans to applicant-borrowers as covered under ### this Section:

(1) Banks and their subsidiary/affiliate financing and leasing companies;

(2) Government Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFls); and

(3) Financing/leasing companies with Quasi-Banking (QB) license that are not subsidiaries of banks.

Covered loan application. The SBLAF templates shall be used for loan ### applications that meet the following:

(1) Applicant-borrower. Must be a sole proprietorship, partnership, cooperative, or corporation, each classified as an MSME or startup and natural person proposing to do business;

(2) Loan Purpose. Financing of business operations and capital expenditures. Credit accommodations for non-business or personal purposes such as_ education, hospitalization, emergency, travel, household and other personal consumption needs are outside the scope of these guidelines; and

(3) Loan security. Secured or unsecured loan.

Guidelines for the Use and Adoption of the SBLAF. All covered entities

shall strictly adhere to the following guidelines for the adoption of the ### SBLAF templates:

a.

The SBLAF templates shall be the sole forms that will be used for covered loan applications. Covered entities are precluded from modifying the templates to preserve the format and minimum information requirements contained therein.

Covered entities shall ensure that the SBLAF templates are accessible in all channels (i.e., branches, agents, and online portals), where the borrowers can submit a covered loan application.

The SBLAF templates can be made available in printed form and/or electronic form, as applicable. Electronic form shall include, but not limited to the following: printable document file (e.g., portable document format (PDF) or MS Excel) which can be filled out electronically and/or printed for submission to financial institutions; and software-, mobile application- and/or web-based forms designed for automated data capture and processing. Electronic signature shall be accepted to authenticate or provide consent in the electronic form. The printable document electronic form shall mirror the printed form of the SBLAF templates. If using other electronic forms, covered entities shall ensure that these contain, as in the printed form, the same: data fields which shall be in the same presentation order to the extent practicable; consent statements; and list of supporting documents. Further, the use of these other electronic forms shall be subject to applicable regulations on information technology, data privacy and cybersecurity, among others as provided under Sec. 148/147-Q/I26-N.

Page 3of5

## Page 4

c. The SBLAF shall serve as the covered entities’ primary loan application screening tool. On a case-to-case basis, covered entities may request additional information and supporting documents commensurate to the borrower's risk profile in support of sound credit risk management practices and customer due diligence measures.

d. The supporting documents listed in the SBLAFs shall not be construed as standard requirements for loan applications. The list shall serve as guide for borrowers who may provide only the pertinent documents to their loan application.

e. Covered entities shall use the SBLAF templates for new covered loan applications, additional loans and renewal and restructuring of existing loans. In case of loan renewal and/or restructuring, covered entities may indicate in their lending guidelines that borrowers may only provide updates on their personal information and/or business profile, as applicable; otherwise, borrowers may indicate “no updates from previous submission”

f. Covered entities shall reflect in their policies on credit, anti-money laundering (AML), countering terrorism and proliferation financing (CTPF), and consumer protection, the adoption of the SBLAF templates, as updated should there be any future revisions made thereto by the Bangko Sentral, for their business loan offering.

Evaluation of Loan Applications using the SBLAF. Loan applications using the SBLAF templates shall be evaluated and processed in accordance with the covered entity's approved credit policies, tools and standards.

Anti-Money Laundering and Countering Terrorism and Proliferation Financing Regulations. All covered entities shall continue to observe applicable AML/CTPF requirements under Part Nine of this Manual.

Consumer Protection. All covered entities shall strictly adhere to the pertinent provisions of R.A. No. 11765, or “Financial Products and Services Consumer Protection Act of 2022,” their implementing rules and regulations, and the rules and guidelines on financial consumer protection under Sec. 1002/1002-Q/702-N.

SBLAF Report. Covered entities shall submit quarterly and annual reports using the prescribed format (Annexes B-1 and B-2) to the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA). The said reports shall be considered Category A-3 and shall be electronically submitted within fifteen (15) banking days after end of the reference period, in accordance with Appendix 7/Q-3/N-1.

The electronic submission of the SBLAF Report shall conform with the prescribed submission procedures and guidelines covering the required format structure, line-item instructions, validation rules and appropriate technology for reporting, among others.

Erroneous, delayed, erroneous and delayed, or unsubmitted reports shall be subject to penalties prescribed under Sec. 171 (Sanctions on reports for non-compliance with the reporting standards)\72-Q (Sanctions in case of willful delay in the submission of reports/refusal to

Page 40f5

## Page 5

permit examination)N43-N (Sanctions in case of willful delay in the submission of reports)

Enforcement Actions. Consistent with the provisions under Sec. 002/002-Q/001-N, the Bangko Sentral may deploy enforcement actions to promote adherence with the requirements set out in this Section and bring about corrective actions to ensure appropriate and consistent adoption of the SBLAF. In this respect, the Bangko Sentral may issue directives or impose sanctions on the BSFI and its directors, officers and/or employees concerned for noted supervisory issues on the adoption of the standard form.

Section 2. Transitory Provision. The following transitory provision shall be incorporated as a footnote to Section 307/306-Q/308-N Mandatory Adoption of ### the Standard Business Loan Application Form:

All covered entities shall comply with the applicable requirements prescribed herein within one (1) year and six (6) months from the effectivity of this Circular.

Section 3. Updating of the SBLAF. The Bangko Sentral, in consultation with relevant stakeholders, may review and update as necessary the SBLAF templates. Updates to the SBLAF shall be disseminated through a memorandum to all covered entities.

Section 4. Appendix 7 of the MORB on the Reports Required of Banks and Appendices Q-3 and N-1 of the MORNBFI on the List of Reports Required from Quasi-banks and from Non-Bank Financial Institutions, respectively, are hereby amended as shown in Annex C of this Circular.

Section 5. Other Provision. Separate regulatory issuance may be issued on the incentives for early adopters of the SBLAF templates.

Section 6. Effectivity. The Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days following its publication in the Official Gazette or any newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

Ki Ye wn

### FELIPE M. MEDALLA Governor

4 September 2022

Page 5 of 5

## Page 6

Annex A-1

{Bank's loge here} {7 New Application [7 Additional Loan [7] Renewal [] Restructuring

is case of fece renewal or cestractaning. are there any updates from preyicus sifmpesion? £7 Yes £3No 6 pax

I BUSINESS LOAN APPLICATION FORM sis oO individual a Sole- Proprietorship = = =6pHOTO

(Please mark nd indicate NVA @ net applicable) ### A. BORROWER AND BUSINESS INFORMATION!

### _ Name of Borrower:

white BAGS,

FirstName) (Middle Name) ____ last Name) ; a (Suffix, if applicable)

i Civil Status: {] Single [) Widow/er i Date of Births(mm/dd/yyyy) I ‘Place of Birth: (Municipality/City, Province), Sex: UC] Male I [J Married 0 Annulled I I 1 Female ### / Oo ‘Separated — I Citizenship:

I I Name of Spouse: 7 _ Date of Birth: (mm/dd/yy) I ; First Name) _ __ (Middle Name) {Last Name) ; (Suffix, if applicable) i Home Address: (Unit #, Building/House #, Street, Subdivision/ Barangay/ Home CJ Owned (unencumbered) [1] Rented I District, Municipality/ City, Province, Zip Code) address 0 Owned (mortgaged) C] Living with relatives ### i “ownership: sustain kength of Stay in Location: ___years _ ### Landline No. (Area Code, Number): _ Mobile No.: I _ Email Address: ### i TIN: _ PhilSys: I Other Government-issued ID (Please specify type/number): ### _ Mother's Maiden Name: —— (FirstName) cnnmnnnlMiddle Name) cowwsnnmnndtast Name) (Suffix, if applicable) Registered I Business Name 2 (Trade N Name) a 7 Principal Business Address: (Unit #, Building/ House ¥, #, Street, Subdivision/ Barangay/ Di District, I “Business address ownership: _ Years the Business has ### I Municipality/City, Province, Zip code) : ©] Owned (unencumbered) : been in operation: Is this similar to Home Address? {) Yes (] No (if no, kindly provide the details) I (1 Owned (mortgaged) _ years ### i I DD Rented _ Number of branches: _ Website/social media (Business): Indicate whether the business has:’

( Female Manager/s ### I Nature of Business (Based on PSIC reference): _ Please specify business activity:

Business registration e of Business Registration Expiry Date of Registration

Registration Number

I (Check all that apply) i (mm/dd/yy) I (mm/dd/yyyy)

### ODT I

/ () Barangay/Mayor's Permit i i

_ © Others (Please specify): I

Firm Size? 7 ait assets csiattinite of the saan on aad the peeraaany entity’s office, iid deat epee are situated) 4

al a oO Micro (not more than Php 3M) ©] Small (Php3,000,001 to 15M) —___ ) Medium (Php 15,000,001 to 100M) I Annual Sales or Revenue: Number of employees: (Please indicate all paid employees and/or directly involved in business operations)

### Full-time: Part-time/Contractual:

1 "fede ‘Supp ied/ Services i : . Name of Top sacha Rendered Contact Person Contact Number 1 Name of Top Customers Goods Purchased/Services Availed Contact Person Contact Number

### __B. LOAN APPLICATION INFORMATION _ Loan amount applied for cube to the approval of the bank) ‘Php _

months

i o Weekly Monthly oO Quarterly o Annually “Bo "Lump s sum 0 Others (Please specif) a

[ Loan —- Credit Line - "E “Loan 0 Working capital (including rceivables ane inventory fearing) 71 Business expansion i / Facility: = © Term Loan Purpose: ~ Construction/Development of real estate 0 Purchase of equipment/motor vehicles I i C] Others (Please specify): =] Acquisition of real estate “J Purchase of biological asset

/ : © Loan takeout/refinancing a — =) Others Pleose specify): __

* Additional borrower information such as but not limited to the following may be obtained using a separate sheet/farm: co-borrower, dependents, questionnaire an politically exposed person (PEP) and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA)

* This information will solely be used to monitor information on business ownership/management in the country. Respanses in this part will not affect the assessment and approval of your loan application.

} Subject to bank verification

‘The size of the firm is being collected for the BSP’s monitoring purposes.

5 As may be applicable

## Page 7

### I Type of im Unsecured Loan. /f secured, collateral/s and/or surety/ies offered:

Loan: OSecured loan 0 Loan secu real estate (e.g, land, building) _O Loan secured by movable property ### I D Receivables & any other claims to payment 0 Intellectual Property ©) Others (Please specify): O Title documents (e.g., warehouse receipt, bill of lading) O Equipment

0 Financial assets eg. deposits, tradable securities, company sen O Inventory

### C. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

: Source of Funds for (0 Revenue 0 Inheritance Repayment of O Asset Sale O Salary/Allowance _ Loans O Savings and/or Investment

O Others (Please specify)

OSI ana Name of Financial

Institution Type of Account

Type of Account Ownership

Savings O Checking O E-wallet (J Others (Please specify) "1 Personal 0 Business/ Merchant

“DSavings ou Checking “(1 E-wallet ) Others (Please specify) I 0 Personal (© Business/Merchant

OSavings O Checking O E-wallet O Others (Please specify) Personal 0 Business/Merchant

eS

. . oo. I Outstanding I Collaterals offered _ Name of Financial Institution _— amount. Date Granted I Maturity Date i 9 (If applicable, indicate if real estate, (mm/yyyy) (mm/yyyy) i Balance

movable property, etc.)

Type of Ownership

0) Personal Business _O Personal L) Business

### D. UNDERTAKING/DECLARATION

I 1/We hereby confirm that all information and supporting documents provided herein are true, accurate and complete and I/we agree to notify the financial institution of i any changes in any of the information supplied. The financial institution can withdraw or cancel any loan approval if any major information and supporting documents are found to be materially inaccurate.

I 1/We authorize the financial institution to obtain relevant information as it may require concerning this application.

I \/We understand and agree that additional undertaking/declaration, not stated in this form, may be required by the financial institution

__I/We hereby agree that this application shall be subject to applicable laws (BSP circulars, rules and regulations) and policies of

### E. DATA PRIVACY CONSENT

I In compliance with the requirements of the Data Privacy Act (DPA), I/we hereby authorize and give my/our consent to on the general use and sharing of information obtained in the course of any transaction/s pursuant to my banking relationship with it. Personal information and sensitive personal ### information® may be collected, processed, stored, updated, or disclosed by the bank:

a. for legitimate bank-related purposes and requests;

b. to implement transactions which the borrower requests, allows, or authorizes;

c. to comply with the bank's internal policies and its reporting obligations to government authorities under applicable laws; and d. to offer and provide new or related products and services of the bank, its affiliates and subsidiaries through mail, email, SMS or other means of / communication.

I I/We confirm that I/we am/are aware that, in case of unlawful acquisition, inaccuracy, and error, I/we have the right to access, update, dispute, block, or correct certain I personal information, or withdraw my/our consent to the use of any information provided herein, subject to the rights and limitations under the DPA. I/We understand that this consent shall continue to be in effect for ____ years or until expiration of the records retention limits set by applicable banking laws, I whichever comes later. _ 1/We further warrant that, prior to submitting to the financial institution any information (including personal information) of an individual; I/we have obtained all I necessary authorizations and consents as may be required by applicable confidentiality and data privacy laws or agreement to enable the bank to process such information. I 1/We understand that should I/we wish to access, update, dispute, block, or correct certain information, or withdraw consent to the use of any of the information I provided herein, subject to the rights and limitations under the DPA, I/we may communicate with the __'s Data Protection Officer at

and may lodge complaints with, and/or seek assistance from the National Privacy Commission.

I I/We understand that my/our basic credit data, as well as any regular updates or corrections thereof, are mandated to be submitted to the Credit Information

I Corporation (CIC) pursuant to R.A. 9150 and its Implementing Rules and Regulations for consolidation and disclosure as may be authorized by the CIC. Consequently my/our basic credit data may thus be shared with other lenders authorized by the CIC, and other reporting agencies duly accredited by the CIC, for the purpose of

I establishing my/our creditworthiness

i: \/We understand and agree that additional data privacy provisions, not stated in this form, may be required by the financial institution

I_U/We have read and understood and consent to be bound by all the terms and conditions stated above. 0

Signature above Printed Name of Date Signature above Printed Name of Date Borrower Co-Borrower/Spouse

Third party credit guarantor and/or security grantor (ie., a person or entity who grants a security interest in collateral to secure the obligation of the borrower)

Contact Information

Printed Name i Affiliation i Relationship with Borrower (address, cantact number)

® Name, address, gender, age, marital status, contact details, birthday, SSS/GSIS, TIN, education, employment or financial or medical information, spouse details, preferences, behavior, and other information classified as "personal data", "personal information", or "sensitive personal information" under the DPA, and those of the Borrower's authorized representative/s, as well as accounts, transactions, and communications.

## Page 8

I I

### I CHECKLIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

eemed necessary.

_ For the financial institution to better consider the application, additional post-approval documents not specified in the list may be

required, as applicable.

_ Basic Documents

I) Filled-out and signed application form Clear copy of one (1) valid government-issued ID Marriage contract, if applicable

Proof of business registration: (Please check applicable item/s) \! Certificate of Registration with Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR)

\I Certificate of Registration with Department of Trade and Industry (DTI)

Certificate of Registration with Securities and

Exchange Commission (SEC)

II Certificate of Registration with Farmers and

### (FFEDIS) Barangay Permit Mayor's Permit

lersonal Income Documents (Please check applicable item/s) Latest Income Tax Return (ITR) or BIR Form 2316 Latest payslip for the past 2 months

Certificate of Employment (COE) with salary or Employment Contract

II Latest crew contact (for seafarers)

{ Proof of remittance for the past 6 months Bank statements or photocopy of passbook for the past 6 months

Lease contract (for rental income)

### Proof of other income:

usiness Documents (Please check applicable item/s)

II Photocopy of Audited Financial Statements for the past 3 years with latest ITR or Photocopy of in-

statements

I! Business Plan/Business Proposal

II Photocopy of franchise agreement, if any \I Business background/Company profile

I Photocopy of purchase agreement

### II Others (please specify):

\) Billing statement of utilities for the past 3 months I Statement of Account from current lender and official receipts for the past 3 months (if loan purpose is refinancing/loan takeout)

II Others (please specify): =

he checklist enumerates the types of supporting documents that the borrower may present to facilitate the financial institution's I _ evaluation of the loan application. Borrowers are not expected to provide all the listed documents but only those that are _ applicable to the loan application.

Fisherfolk Enterprise Development Information System

_ After the initial loan application screening, additional information (using separate sheet or form) may be requested to further I valuate the loan application and the security being offered. The financial institution may also require additional documents, as i

: Security Documents (Please check applicable item/s) I

Photocopy of Transfer Certificate of Title (TCT)/ Condominium Certificate of Title (CCT)

Photocopy of Tax Declaration (for land and improvement)

Location/Vicinity Map

Land Transportation Office (LTO) Official Receipt (OR)/ Certificate of Registration (CR) or Deed of Sale of / Motor Vehicle Reservation Agreement or Contract to Sell or

Statement of Account (for Deed of Assignment (DOA) accounts only)

### If secured by a Continuing Suretyship:

Basic Documents (as enumerated in this form) of the Surety i Income Documents (as enumerated in this form) of the I Surety

If construction loan

Building/Floor plan of proposed improvement Bill of materials

I Specification of proposed finishes

Building permit

If refinancing/loan take out

Statement of Account from current lender and official receipts for the past 3 months

Appraisal fee ### Additional security documents (please specify):

Post-approval requirements for real estate collateral-backed

house financial statements or pre-operating financial

/ Other post-approval requirements

/ loans (Please check applicable item/s)

Original owner's copy of TCT/CCT

Original Tax Clearance

Certified true copy of latest Tax Declaration Insurance policy/ies (for properties with 1 improvements)

Master Deed of Declaration (for condominium only) Photocopy of latest full year Real Estate Tax Receipt ### (RETR) Price quotation of the property (for property acquisition)

Affidavit of Consent to Mortgage Family Home ### Others (please specify):

i

General Information Sheet (GIS), if applicable 1 Special Power of Attorney, if applicable

Certificate of Ownership for movable property (e.g., motor vehicles, etc.)

## Page 9

### FOR BANK REFERENCE ONLY

### :

_ A- Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing

_ B-— Mining and Quarrying

Ic- Manufacturing

_ D-Electricity, Gas Steam and Air-conditioning Supply

_ E-Water Supply, Sewerage, Waste Management and Remediation Activities F — Construction

_ G- Wholesale & Retail Trade; Repair of Motor Vehicles & Motorcycles H — Transportation & Storage

— Accommodation & Food Services Activities

J — Information & Communication

K — Financial & Insurance Activities

L — Real Estate Activities

_M-— Professional, Scientific & Technical Activities

N — Administrative & Support Service Activities

I O- Public Administration & Defense; Compulsory Social Security

I P- Education

I Q-—Human Health & Social Work Activities

: R - Arts, Entertainment and Recreation

IS — Other Service Activities

T - Activities of Household as Employers; Undifferentiated Goods- and- Services- Producing Activities of _ Households for Own Use

### F: } ### F: }

ee ee ee ee ee ee

## Page 10

Annex A-2

ga here} () New Application () Additional Loan [7] Renewal ["] Restructuring

fe vise of iean renewal or restriatising, are there any updates front previne sufavession? £73 Yes [7 No (# pox tint

### BUSINESS LOAN APPLICATION FORM.

Cooperative Oo Pe thership. (1 One-Person Corporation 2 (Pledse mark the gppropricte exes and lidicate N/A Gf net appuceble) __

procicte Getaiiss

rporation a

### __A. BUSINESS INFORMATION

### I Registered Business Name (Trade Name):

_ Principal Business Address: (Unit #, Building/House 4, Street, Subdivision/Barangay/District, Municipality/City, Province, Zip Code)

### i Website/social media (Business): I TIN:

### Business address [] Owned (unencumbered) —_—- Years the Business has been in Number of branches: ### ownership: {J Owned (mortgaged) operation: years Number of subsidiaries: ### Nature of Business (Based 0 an PSIC reference): Please specify business activity:

### [1 CDA pT I g BIR I i QO Barangay/M: or's Permit ( Others (Please speci ee ee Se ### Indicate whether the C] ts at least 51% (majority) owned by female/s : _ business: CIs at least 20% owned by female/s; AND (i) has at least 1 woman as CEO/COO/President/Vice President; i _.AND (ji) 30% of directors composed of women, where a board exists

Firm Size’ (Total assets exclusive of the land on which the business entity's office, plant and equipment are situated) *

Oo Micro (not more than Php 3M) “1 Small (Php3,000,001 to 15M) ___©1 Medium (Php 15,000,001 to 100M) : Annual Sales or Revenue: : Number a ‘employees: (Please indicate all paid ‘employees and/or directly involved in business operations) ### ' Full-time: Part-time/Contractual:

Authorized Representative 1: Government ID: I (First Name) 7 (Middle Name) ; (Last Name) ; (Suffix, f applicable) ; I I Date of Birth gmiiujyy I Mobile Number: ‘Landline No. (Area Code, Number) panel Address: “Sex: C] Male i

I i C] Female /

Government ID: i i

can, (First Name) {Middle Name) ___ lastName) Suffix, if applicable) ee i Date of Birth imm/dd/yyyy) Mobile Number: I Landline No. (Area Code, Number) Email Address: : “Sex: 0 Male H

ik ee _ Name of Top Suppliers = Goods Supplied/ Services Rendere Contact Person Contact Number

Name of Top Customers I I Goods Purchased/Services Availed Contact Person : Contact Number

i

c. . LOAN. APPLICATION INFORMATION Loan amount applied for (subject to the approval of t the bank): ‘Php Proposed frequency of O Weekly J Monthly 3 Quarterly “oO Annually ‘oC Lump. sum cl] Others (Please specify, _ repayment? : = a — TERE Loan O Credit Line i Loan 0 Working capital (inctiding receivables and inventory financing) [ Business expansion I Facility: (1 Term Loan i Purpose: ©) Construction/Development of real estate (] Purchase of equipment/motor vehicles 0 Others (Please specify): OC) Acquisition of real estate [ Purchase of biological asset O Loan takeout/refinancing Others (Please specify).

Tenor. _ months

### Type of I (Unsecured Loan if secured toan, please mark appropriate box/es: Loan: (1 Secured Loan ; Loan secured by real estate (e.g., land, buildings)

C] Loan secured by movable property: i "J Receivables & any other claims to payment "intellectual Property) Others (Please specify): i “J Title documents (e.g. warehouse receipt, bill of lading} {1 Equipment i

CJ Financial assets (e.g. deposits. tradable securities, company shares} II Inventory _O Loan backed by third party credit guarantee/continuing suretyship

* This information will solely be used to monitor information on business ownership/management in the country. Responses in this part will nat affect the assessment and approval of your loan application.

2 Subject to bank verification

* The size the firm is being collected for the BSP’s monitoring purpeses

* Additional borrower information such as but not limited te the following may be obtained using a separate sheet/form: co-borrower, dependents, questionnaire on

politically exposed person (PEP} and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA}

## Page 11

### D. FINANCIAL INFORMATION _ Source of Funds for O Revenue _ Repayment of Loans: 0 Asset Sale

CO Others (Please specify)

Name of Financial Year Fi “Institution I = Type of Account “Opened Type of Account Gunershig U Savings 0 Checking 1 E-wallet Others (Please specify) © Personal O Business/Merchant “a Savings 1 Checking O E-wallet O Others (Please specify) (1 Personal ( Business/Merchant O Savings 0 Checking O E-wallet O Others (Please specify) (Personal © Business/Merchant

ee

Name of Financial Date Granted —=§_ Maturity Date Outstanding _ Collaterals offered i - i I , l » i

Outstanding Balance Type of Ownership

Institution O Personal O Business 0 Personal D Business O Personal Business

UNDERTAKING/DELARATION css nan . all and supporting documents provided herein are true, accurate and complete and ;

of any changes in any of the information supplied. The financial institution can withdraw or cancel any loan approval if any major information and supporting documents I

### are found to be materially inaccurate. :

\/We authorize the financial institution to obtain relevant information as it may require concerning this application.

\/We understand and agree that additional undertaking/declaration, not stated in this form, may be required by the financial institution.

her his application shall be subject to applicable laws (BSP circulars, rules and regulations) and policies of _

—

In compliance wi e requirements of the Data Privacy Act (DPA), I/we hereby authorize and give my/our consent to on the general use and sharing of information obtained in the course of any transaction/s pursuant to my banking relationship with it. Personal information and sensitive personal ### information® may be collected, processed, stored, updated, or disclosed by the bank:

a. for legitimate bank-related purposes and requests;

b. to implement transactions which the borrower requests, allows, or authorizes;

c. to comply with the bank's internal policies and its reporting obligations to government authorities under applicable laws; and

d. to offer and provide new or related products and services of the bank, its affiliates and subsidiaries through mail, email, SMS or other means of communication.

1/We confirm that I/we am/are aware that, in case of unlawful acquisition, inaccuracy, and error, I/we have the right to access, update, dispute, block, or correct certain personal information, or withdraw my/our consent to the use of any information provided herein, subject to the rights and limitations under the DPA

\/We understand that this consent shall continue to be in effect for years or until expiration of the records retention limits set by applicable banking laws, ### whichever comes later. : \/We further warrant that, prior to submitting to the financial institution any information (including personal information) of an individual; I/we have obtained all I necessary authorizations and consents as may be required by applicable confidentiality and data privacy laws or agreement to enable the bank to process such ~ information,

\/We understand that should I/we wish to access, update, dispute, block, or correct certain information, or withdraw consent to the use of any of the information provided I herein, subject to the rights and limitations under the DPA, I/we may communicate with the 's Data Protection Officer at I and may lodge complaints with, and/or seek assistance from the National Privacy Commission.

1/We understand that my/our basic credit data, as well as any regular updates or corrections thereof, are mandated to be submitted to the Credit Information Corporation (CIC) pursuant to R.A. 9150 and its Implementing Rules and Regulations for consolidation and disclosure as may be authorized by the CIC. Consequently, my/our basic credit data may thus be shared with other lenders authorized by the CIC, and other reporting agencies duly accredited by the CIC, for the purpose of

© establishing my/our creditworthiness.

\/We understand and agree that additional data privacy provisions, not stated in this form, may be required by the financial institution

I 1/We have read and understood and consent to be bound by all the terms and conditions stated above

Signature above Printed Name and Date Designation of Authorized Signatories

Third party credit guarantor and/or security grantor (ie, a person or entity who grants a security interest in collateral to secure the obligation of the borrower)

Contact Information (address, contact number)

Relationship with Borrower

Printed Name Affiliation

® Name, address, gender, age, marital status, contact details, birthday, SSS/GSIS, TIN, education, employment or financial or medical information, spouse details, preferences, personal information", or “sensitive personal information" under the DPA, and those of the Borrower's authorized

## Page 12

### CHECKLIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

The checklist enumerates the types of supporting documents that the borrower may present to facilitate the financial institution's evaluation of the loan application. Borrowers are not expected to provide all the listed documents but only those that are applicable.

After the initial loan application screening, additional information (using separate sheet or form) may be requested to further evaluate the loan application and the security being offered. The financial institution may also require additional documents, as deemed necessary.

For the financial institution to better consider the application, additional post-approval documents not specified in the list may be required, I as applicable,

I Basic Documents Supporting documents for secured loan

I Filled-out and signed application form Security Documents (Please check applicable item/s)

I Clear copy of one (1) valid government- I Photocopy of Transfer Certificate of Title (TCT)/ issued ID of authorized representative, if Condominium Certificate of Title (CCT) applicable Photocopy of Tax Declaration (for land and Board/Partnership Resolution or Secretary's improvement) Certificate authorizing the loan and ; Location/Vicinity Map indicating the authorized person/s to Land Transportation Office (LTO) Official Receipt (OR)/ transact with the bank and sign relevant Certificate of Registration (CR) or Deed of Sale of Motor documents Vehicle

I Special Power of Attorney, if applicable

I Certificate of Registration with Farmers and Reservation Agreement or Contract to Sell or Statement

of Account (for Deed of Assignment (DOA) accounts only)

Fisherfolk Enterprise Development Information System (FFEDIS)

### _If secured by a Continuing Suretyship:

; 5 5; . Basic Documents (as enu ted in this f f th Proof of Business Registration and Supporting Documents: tc ( marated in this term) af the

Suret (Please check aasienied item/s) suey, Documents (as enumerated in this form) of the Cooperative Surety Certificate of Registration with Cooperative Development Authority (CDA) _If construction loan Certificate of Compliance, if applicable I Building/Floor plan of proposed improvement List of elected officers Bill of materials Partnership Specification of proposed finishes Certificate of Registration with Securities Building permit and Exchange Commission (SEC) Articles of Partnership Others Corporation/One-person Corporation : Appraisal fee ### I Certificate of Registration with SEC Additional security documents (Please specify): I General Information Sheet (GIS), if applicable I Latest amended Articles of Incorporation . and By-Laws Post-approval requirements for real estate collateral-backed i loans (Please check applicable item/s) I Income Documents (Please check applicable item/s) II Original owner's copy of TCT/CCT I Photocopy of Audited Financial Statements Original Tax Clearance for the past 3 years with latest Income Tax I) Certified true copy of latest Tax Declaration Return (ITR) or Photocopy of in-house Insurance policy/ies (for properties with improvements) financial statements or pre-operating Master Deed of Declaration (for condominium only) financial statements Photocopy of latest full year Real Estate Tax Receipt Bank statements or photocopy of passbook (RETR) for the past 6 months I Price quotation of the property (for property I Business background/Company profile acquisition) Proof of other income, if any II Affidavit of Consent to Mortgage Family Home

### Others (please specify):

I Other Supporting Documents Billing statement of utilities for the past 3 months Other post-approval requirements

Statement of Account from current lender I Certificate of Ownership for movable property (e.g., motor vehicles, etc.)

and official receipts for the past 3 months (if I loan purpose is refinancing/loan takeout) ### Others (please specify):

## Page 13

### FOR BANK REFERENCE ONLY

_ A-Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing

_ B- Mining and Quarrying

C — Manufacturing

D - Electricity, Gas Steam and Air-conditioning Supply

E — Water Supply, Sewerage, Waste Management and Remediation Activities F — Construction

G — Wholesale & Retail Trade; Repair of Motor Vehicles & Motorcycles H — Transportation & Storage

_ I- Accommodation & Food Services Activities

_ J- Information & Communication

I K— Financial & Insurance Activities

_ L—Real Estate Activities

_ M- Professional, Scientific & Technical Activities

I N - Administrative & Support Service Activities

_ O- Public Administration & Defense; Compulsory Social Security

_ P— Education

I Q- Human Health & Social Work Activities

_ R-Arts, Entertainment and Recreation

_ S$ — Other Service Activities

I T - Activities of Household as Employers; Undifferentiated Goods- and- Services- Producing Activities of Households for Own Use

_ U-Activities of Extraterritorial Organizations and Bodies

## Page 14

Annex B-1

REPORT ON BUSINESS LOAN APPLICATIONS USING SBLAF TEMPLATES (Solo Basis)

Form 1

For the quarter ended: (quarter), (year)

### Name of Covered Entity:

Micro (not more than ### P3M)

### P15M)

### P1O00M) ### PO Findustry

Fishing

Electricity, Gas, Steam and Air-Conditioning Suppl

Water supply, Sewerage, Waste management and Remediation Activities

Wholesale and Retail Trade, Repair of Motor Vehicles, Motorcycles

Food Service Activities Storage Communication Activities

Real Estate Activities Professional, Scientific and Technical Activities Administrative and Support Service Activities

Public Administration and Defense; Compulsory Social Securi

Number of Loan Applications

Ave. No. of Banking Days to Process"

Amount of Approved Loans

Under Evaluation

## Page 15

Education

Human Health and Social Work Activities

Arts, Entertainment and Recreation

Other Service Activities Activities of Households as Employers and Undifferentiated Goods- and-Services-Producing Activities of Households for Own Use

Activities of Extra- Territorial Organizations and Bodies

Years the business has been in operation

Less than 5 years 5-10 years

Loan Size Applied For Up to P300,000

### P1,000,000 ### P10,000,000 po

Collateral/Security Presented

Real estate (e.g., land,

building

Movable Property (e.g.

receivables, inventory,

equipment, financial

assets, etc.)

Third-party credit

guarantee/continuing

suretyship Ji Start of loan processing is defined from the date of receipt of loan application, including basic supporting loan documents as indicated in the SBLAF templates, while end is defined as the date of release of loan proceeds /2 Based on asset size (Total assets exclusive of the land on which the entity's office, plant and equipment are situated) /3 For applications using CPC form, tag under female if either tickbox is checked for a) Is at least 51% (majority) owned by female/s or b) Is at least 20% owned by female/s; AND (i) has at least 1 woman as CEO/COO/President/Vice President; AND (ii) 30% of directors composed of women, where a board exists /3 For applications using ISP form, tag under female if sex of the borrower is as such

## Page 16

Annex B-2

REPORT ON BUSINESS LOAN APPLICATIONS USING SBLAF TEMPLATES (Solo Basis) Form]

For the period: 1 January to 31 December, (year)

### Name of Covered Entity:

sun Number of Loan Applicati Amount =. vail Banking

Approved Days to

Loans ‘A

Process’

### P3M) ### PI5M) ### P100M)

Indust

Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing

Electricity, Gas, Steam and Air-Conditioning Suppl

Water supply, Sewerage, Waste management and Remediation Activities

Wholesale and Retail Trade, Repair of Motor Vehicles, Motorcycles

Food Service Activities Transportation and Storage

Information and Communication Financial and Insurance Activities

Real Estate Activities

Professional, Scientific and Technical Activities

Administrative and Support Service Activities Public Administration and Defense; Compulsory Social Securi

## Page 17

Annex B-2

Education

Work Activities Recreation

Other Service Activities Activities of Households as Employers and Undifferentiated Goods- and-Services-Producing Activities of Households for Own Use

Activities of Extra- Territorial Organizations and Bodies

Gender

Years the business has been in operation

Less than 5 years 5-10 years Over 10 years

Loan Size Applied For Up to P300,000 Over P300,000 to ### P1,000,000 Over P1,000,000 to ### P10,000,000

Over P10,000,000

Collateral/Security Presented

Real estate (e.g., land,

building

Movable Property (e.g.

receivables, inventory,

equipment, financial

assets, etc.)

Third-party credit

guarantee/continuing

suretyship JI Start of loan processing is defined from the date of receipt of loan application, including basic supporting loan documents, as indicated in the SBLAF templates, while end is defined as the date of release of loan proceeds /2 Based on asset size (Total assets exclusive of the land on which the entity's office, plant and equipment are situated)

/3 For applications using CPC form, tag under female if either tickbox is checked for a) /s at least 51% (majority) owned by female/s or b) Is at least 20% owned by female/s; AND (i) has at least 7] woman as CEO/COO/President/Vice President: AND (ii) 30% of directors composed of women, where a board exists

/3 For applications using ISP form, tag under female if sex of the borrower is as such

## Page 18

Appendix 7 of the MORB - Report Required of Banks

A. UB/KBs - Secondary Report

Annex C

Form No. I MOR Ref.

Submission Procedure

email to DSA

Submission Procedure

Form No. I MOR Ref. Report Title Submission Deadline

Category Form No. I MOR Ref. Report Title Frequency Submission Deadline Report on Business Loan Quarterly and I 15 banking days from the A-3 Section 307 I Applications Using SBLAF Annuall end of reference quarter email to DSA

Submission Procedure

email to DSA

Report on Business Loan Quarterly and I 15 banking days from the Section 307 I Applications Using SBLAF

Annually end of reference quarter Appendix Q-3 of the MORNBFI - List of Reports Required from Quasi-Banks Secondary Report

Form No. Submission Deadline

15 banking days from the end of reference quarter

Section ### 306-Q

email to DSA

I Submission Procedure I

I Category I Form No. I MOR Ref. Report Title

A-3 307-N Applications Using SBLAF

Frequency I Submission Deadline Quarterly and I 15 banking days from the

Annually _ end of reference quarter email to DSA

I Submission Procedure __I 