# 1157

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1157 Series of 2022

Subject: Amendment to the Manual of Regulations for Banks and Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions pertaining to Bangko Sentral Issued Securities Eligible Counterparties

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1466 dated 6 October 2022, approved the following amendments to the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBEFI) pertaining to the participation of trust entities that manage unit investment trust funds with non-resident participants in the secondary market of the Bangko Sentral Issued Securities.

Section 1. Section 601/601-Q of the MORB/MORNBFI on Monetary ### Operations is hereby amended to read as follows:

601/601-Q Monetary Operations ### XXX The Bangko Sentral Issued Securities (Bills and Bonds). xxx

Prohibition against funds from non-residents being accepted in the TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF (primary and secondary markets). The TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF are monetary instruments deployed by the Bangko Sentral for the purpose of managing domestic liquidity in the financial system. These facilities should not be made available for opportunistic investment activities funded from non-resident sources. Further, placements in the TDF, the ODF and the BSP-SF are contractual in nature and thus shall be governed by the intent of the contracting parties. In keeping with the nature of these facilities, counterparties of the Bangko Sentral shall comply with the Guidelines on the Prohibition Against the Use of Funds from Non- Resident Sources for Placements in the Bangko Sentral’s TDF, the ODF and the BSP-SF, as shown in Appendix 82/Q-48.

Provided, however, that in the secondary market for Bangko Sentral Securities, participation of trust entities through unit investment trust funds (UITFs) with non-resident participants in the selling or buying of Bangko Sentral Securities shall be allowed, provided that

## Page 2

purpose, trust entities shall submit periodic reports to the Bangko Sentral.

Section 2. Annexes A-1 and A-2 of this Circular shall replace the ### corresponding Appendices of the MORB and MORNBEF'I as follows:

a. Annexes A-1 of this Circular shall replace Appendix 82 of the MORB.' b. Annexes A-2 of this Circular shall replace Appendix Q-48 of the MORNBFI.

Section 3. This Circular shall take effect immediately upon its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general

circulation. ### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD: Cc HIG. FONACIER fficer-In-Charge /¥¢ October 2022

1 Appendices on the Guidelines on the Prohibition against the Use of Funds from Non-Resident Sources for Placements in the Bangko Sentral’s Term Deposit Auction Facility (TDF), the Overnight Deposit Facility (ODF) and the Bangko Sentral Securities Facility (BSP-SF).

## Page 3

### ANNEX A-1

### GUIDELINES ON THE PROHIBITION AGAINST THE USE OF ### FUNDS FROM NON-RESIDENT SOURCES FOR PLACEMENTS ### IN THE BANGKO SENTRAL'S TERM DEPOSIT FACILITY (TDF)

### AND OVERNIGHT DEPOSIT FACILITY (ODF), AND BANGKO

### SENTRAL SECURITIES FACILITY (BSP-SF) [Appendix to Sec. 601 (Prohibition against funds from non-residents being accepted in the TDF, ODF, and BSP- ### SF}]

The TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF are monetary policy instruments deployed by the Bangko Sentral for the purpose of managing domestic liquidity in the financial system. These facilities should not be made available for opportunistic investment activities funded from non-resident sources. Furthermore, placements in the TDF, the ODF, and BSP-SF are contractual in nature and thus, shall be governed by the intent of the contracting parties. In keeping with the nature of this facility, all eligible banks/TD shall not place in the TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF (primary and secondary markets) funds obtained, directly or indirectly, from non- residents: Provided, That funds inwardly remitted by a foreign bank intended as capital of its branch or subsidiary in the Philippines shall be eligible for placement in the TDF, the ODF, and the BSP-SF (primary and secondary markets) of the Bangko Sentral.

However, the UITFs of eligible trust departments (TDs), regardiess of whether the UITFs have funds from non-residents, can be invested in Bangko Sentral Securities via the participation of the TDs in the secondary market, subject to the limits imposed under Sec. 601 and periodic reporting on non-resident funds to the Bangko Sentral.

An eligible bank/TD is required to submit to the Bangko Sentral's Financial Markets a notarized Letter of Undertaking (LOU) (Annex "A" for a bank, Annex “B” for a TD) committing it is qualified as a counterparty of the Bangko Sentral TDF, ODF and/or BSP-SF.

It is the responsibility of an eligible bank/TD to have in place the appropriate internal policies and monitoring and assurance mechanisms consistent with its LOU.

The Bangko Sentral reserves the right to verify compliance with the above conditions. Whenever the Bangko Sentral has reason to believe that an eligible bank/TD is unable or unwilling to comply with the terms and conditions for the access to the TDF, the ODF, and the BSP-SF, the Bangko Sentral may limit, suspend, or deny access by the subject bank/TD to the TDF, the ODF and/or the BSP-SF.

The eligible bank/TD shall report to the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral all existing TDF, ODF, and BSP- SF placements not consistent with these guidelines. Such placements shall not be renewed and shall be terminated upon maturity.

a ———— Manual of Regulations for Banks — Appendix 82 Page 1

## Page 4

### ANNEX A-1

Annex A

(Institution's Letterhead)

### Date:

The Financial Markets Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas A. Mabini St., Malate, Manila

Letter of Undertaking

Pursuant to Sec. 601, which prohibits the use of funds sourced from non-residents from being placed in the Term Deposit Facility (TDF), the Overnight Deposit Facility (ODF), and the Bangko Sentral Securities Facility (BSP-SF) of the Bangko Sentral, the___— (Name of Institution) _ hereby undertakes not to place in the TDF, the ODF and the BSP-SF, as applicable, funds obtained from non-

residents.

The _. (Name of Institution) = shall put in place appropriate internal

policies and monitoring and assurance mechanisms consistent with the above conditions. Furthermore, it shall make available pertinent information and documents requested by the Bangko Sentral to verify compliance with the terms and conditions on its access to the Bangko Sentral's TDF, ODF and BSP-SF.

(Treasurer) (President or Equivalent Position) Signature Over Printed Signature Over Printed Name Name

SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me this day of____at ### affiant/s exhibiting their______——_, to wit:

### NOTARY PUBLIC

Doc. No._____; Page No. Book No.___ Series of 20___

Manual of Regulations for Banks — Appendix 82 Page 2

## Page 5

### ANNEX A-1

Annex B

{Institution's Letterhead)

### Date:

The Financial Markets Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas A. Mabini St., Malate, Manila

Letter of Undertaking

Pursuant to Sec. 601, which prohibits the use of funds sourced from non-residents from being placed in the Bangko Sentral Securities Facility (BSP-SF) of the Bangko Sentral, the (Name __ of i hereby undertakes not to place in the BSP-SF, as applicable, funds

from any UITF in which non-residents account for more than 10 percent (10%) of net assets.

The ____ (Name of Trust Department/Trust Entity) shall put in place appropriate internal policies

and monitoring and assurance mechanisms in accordance with the provisions of Sec. 601, and submit timely, accurate and comprehensive periodic reports on non-resident funds to the Bangko Sentral. Furthermore, it shall make available pertinent information and documents requested by the Bangko Sentral to verify compliance with the terms and conditions on its access to the Bangko Sentral's BSP- ### SF.

(Chief Compliance (Trust Officer) Officer) Signature Over Printed Signature Over Printed Name Name SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me this day of. at

### affiant/s exhibiting their____-__——~—S— to wit:

### NOTARY PUBLIC

Doc. No.

Page No. Book No. Series of 20

## Page 6

### ANNEX A-2

### GUIDELINES ON THE PROHIBITION AGAINST THE USE OF FUNDS FROM NON-RESIDENT SOURCES FOR PLACEMENTS IN THE BANGKO SENTRAL’S TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF

[Appendix to Sec. 601-Q (Prohibition against funds from non-residents being accepted in the TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF}]

The TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF are monetary instruments deployed by the Bangko Sentral for the purpose of managing domestic liquidity in the financial system. These facilities should not be made available for opportunistic investment activities funded from non-resident sources. Furthermore, placementsinthe TDF, the ODF, and the BSP-SFarecontractualinnatureandthus, shall be governed by the intent of the contracting parties. In keeping with the nature of this facility, all eligible quasi-banks/trust entities (QB/TE) shall not place in the TDF, the ODF, and the BSP-SF (primary market and secondary markets) funds obtained, directly or indirectly. from non-residents. However, the UITFs of eligible trust entities, regardless of whether these have funds from non-residents, can be invested in Bangko Sentral Securities via the participation of the TEs in the secondary market, subject to the limits imposed under Sec. 601-Q and periodic reporting on non-resident funds to the Bangko Sentral.

An eligible QB/TE is required to submit to the Bangko Sentral’s Financial Markets a notarized Letter of Undertaking (LOU) (Annex "A" for a QB, Annex “B” for a TE) committing it is qualified as a counterparty of the Bangko Sentral TDF, the ODF, and/or the BSP-SF.

It is the responsibility of an eligible QB/TE to have in place the appropriate internal policies and monitoring and assurance mechanisms consistent with its LOU. .

The Bangko Sentral reserves the right to verify compliance with the above conditions. Whenever the Bangko Sentral has reason to believe that an eligible QB/TE is unable or unwilling to comply with the terms and conditions for the access to the TDF, the ODF, or the BSP-SF, the Bangko Sentral may limit, suspend, or deny access by the subject QB/TE to the TDF, the ODF, and/or BSP-SF.

The eligible QB/TE shall report to the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral all existing TDF, ODF, and BSP-SF placements not consistent with these guidelines. Such placements shall not be renewed and shail be terminated upon maturity.

## Page 7

### ANNEX A-2

Annex A

(Institution's Letterhead) ### Date:

The Financial Markets Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas A. Mabini St., Malate, Manila

Letter of Undertaking

Pursuant to Sec. 601-Q, which prohibits the use of funds sourced from non-residents from being placed in the Term Deposit Facility (TDF), the Overnight Deposit Facility (ODF), and the Bangko Sentral Securities Facility (BSP-SF) of the Bangko Sentral, the __ (Name of Institution) hereby undertakes not to place in the TDF, the ODF and the BSP-SF, as applicable, funds obtained from non-residents.

The ____ (Name of Institution) shall put in place appropriate internal policies and monitoring and assurance mechanisms consistent with the above conditions. Furthermore, it shalt make available pertinent information and documents requested by the Bangko Sentral to verify compliance with the terms and conditions on its access to the Bangko Sentral's TDF, ODF and BSP-SF.

(Treasurer) (President or Equivalent Position) Signature Over Printed Signature Over Printed Name Name SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me this day of__.__att

### affiant/s exhibiting their to wit:

### NOTARY PUBLIC

Doc. No. Page No. Book No. Series of 20..

## Page 8

### ANNEX A-2

Annex B

(Institution's Letterhead)

### Date:

The Financial Markets Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas A. Mabini St., Malate, Manila

Letter of Undertaking

Pursuant to Sec. 601-Q, which prohibits the use of funds sourced from non-residents from being placed in the Bangko Sentral Securities Facility (BSP-SF) of the Bangko Sentral, the ___(Name _of j hereby undertakes not to place in the BSP-SF, as applicable, funds

from any UITF in which non-residents account for more than 10 percent (10%) of net assets.

The ___ (Name of Trust Department/Trust Entity) shall put in place appropriate internal policies and monitoring and assurance mechanisms in accordance with the provisions of Sec. 601-Q, and submit timely, accurate and comprehensive periodic reports on non-resident funds to the Bangko Sentral. Furthermore, it shall make available pertinent information and documents requested by the Bangko Sentral to verify compliance with the terms and conditions on its access to the Bangko Sentral's BSP-SF.

(Chief Compliance (Trust Officer/ Officer or Equivalent President or Equivalent Position) Position) Signature Over Printed Signature Over Printed Name Name SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me this day of___.__at. ### affiant/s exhibiting their__. SS to wit: ### NOTARY PUBLIC

Doc. No. _ Page No._____; Book No.

Series of 20___. - 