# 1166

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1166 Series of 2023

Subject: Amendments to the Regulations on Electronic Money (E-money) and the operations of Electronic Money Issuers (EMI) in the Philippines

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 122 dated 26 January 2023, approved the amendments to the pertinent provisions of the Manual of Regulations for Banks and Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions on the regulations governing the issuance of electronic money and the operations of e-money issuers in the Philippines.

Section 1. Sec. 702 on Issuance and Operations of Electronic Money shall be ### amended to read as follows:

### 702 ISSUANCE AND OPERATIONS OF ELECTRONIC MONEY (E-MONEY)

The following guidelines shall govern the issuance of E-money and the operations of E-money issuers.

Policy Statement. The Bangko Sentral aims to promote a safe, efficient, and inclusive digital finance ecosystem by espousing an enabling regulatory environment that recognizes the advances in digital technologies and fosters a responsive and effective management of attendant risks. The regulations governing E-money issuers and operations allow Bangko Sentral-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) to adopt risk management systems commensurate to their size, risk profile, complexity of operations, and systemic importance. This enables BSFIs to provide financial services attuned to the evolving needs and behaviour of consumers and supported by safeguards and controls to ensure that risks remain within manageable levels.

Scope. These guidelines shall cover BSFls that issue E-money and engage in E-money business in the Philippines. E-money issued under closed-loop electronic wallet systems is not covered by this Section.

Definition of Terms. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions ### shall apply:

### a. E-money shall refer to an electronically-stored monetary value that is: (l} maintained in a non-interest-bearing non-deposit transaction account; (2) denominated in or pegged to Philippine Peso or other foreign currencies; (3) pre-funded by customers to enable payment transactions; (4) accepted as a means of payment by the issuer and by other persons or entities including merchants/sellers; issued against receipt of funds of an amount equal to the monetary ### value issued: represented by a claim on its issuer; and

### (S

—

(6

—

## Page 2

(7) withdrawable in cash or cash equivalent or transferable to other accounts/instruments that are withdrawable in cash.

b. Electronic instruments or devices shall refer to cash cards, prepaid cards, stored value cards or any digital wallet accessible via mobile phones or other access device, and other similar products within the scope of electronic payments and financial services as defined under Sec. 701;

c. Transaction account shall be as defined under Sec. 701;

d. Closed-loop electronic wallet system shall refer to an arrangement wherein the electronic wallet is accepted as a means of payment only by the merchant-issuer. Merchant-issuers including their subsidiaries and affiliates shall be considered as one entity for purposes of determining closed-loop electronic wallet systems.

e. Open-loop electronic wallet system shall refer to an arrangement wherein the electronic wallet is accepted as a means of payment by other persons or entities other than the merchant-issuer and their subsidiaries and affiliates.

f. Merchants are physical or electronic retailers or businesses that accept E-money as payment and may utilize electronic platforms in selling their goods and services.

Application for authority to offer E-money services. Banks may offer E- money services subject to prior approval of the Bangko Sentral under Electronic Payment and Financial Services (EPFS) license and compliance with the prudential criteria provided under Sec. 111 and requirements on licensing of EPFS under Appendix 136 of Sec. 701.

Governance. The following guidelines shall govern the issuance and ### operations of E-money:

a. Minimum Systems and Controls. Prior to issuance of E-money, BSFls ### shall ensure that the following are in place:

(1) Sound and prudent management, administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms;

(2) Properly-designed computer systems which are thoroughly and independently tested! prior to implementation;

(3) Appropriate security policies and measures intended to safeguard the integrity, authenticity, and confidentiality of data and operating processes;

(4) Robust selection criteria and due diligence process in accrediting E-money agents and merchant/business partners and criteria for periodic performance review,

(5) Fraud risk management system that is commensurate to the risks associated with particular EMI classification or specific EMI activities;

(6) Adequate business continuity and disaster recovery plan; and

(7) Effective audit function to provide periodic review of the security control environment and critical systems.

‘These include independent testing of security controls by third-party service providers

Page 2 of 12

## Page 3

b. E-money shall only be issued and redeemed at face value. It shall not be purchased at a discount wherein the E-money credited to the customer's account balance is higher than the amount of fiat money used to purchase it. The issuance and operations of E-money denominated in foreign currency shall be subject to existing foreign exchange rules and regulations. Moreover, E-money is not considered a deposit. It shall not earn interest and other similar incentives convertible to cash that may be construed as earning of interest. BSFIs may offer promotional incentives that are not based on the outstanding balance of the e-wallet to encourage greater usage and attract new users.

c. Consumer Protection. BSFls are required to strictly adhere to Bangko Sentral regulations on Financial Consumer protection as prescribed under Part Ten. BSFls shall adhere to the expectations provided under ### this regulation covering the following core principles:

(1) Disclosure and transparency of E-money transactions;

(2) Protection of client information;

(3) Fair treatment of E-money customers;

(4) Effective recourse in place for handling complaints and redress mechanisms; and

(5) Protection of E-money Consumer Assets against Fraud and Misuse.

d. Minimum Disclosure Requirements. BSFls shall provide clear terms and conditions on the use of E-money, which should be made available through various channels, including the BSFI’s website, brochures, and registration form (user's and merchant’s copy). BSFIs must obtain acknowledgement from their users and merchants that they have read and understood the terms and conditions prior to their availment of E- money services. The terms and conditions shall include the following ### information, among others:

(1) Issuer of the E-money who is ultimately responsible to the E- money holders;

(2) Type of transactions that can be made using the E-money;

(3) All applicable fees and charges;

(4) FX risks and basis of applicable exchange rates for FX transactions using the application for multi-currency E-money wallets;

(5) Availability of user's transaction history and/or statement of account;

(6) Procedures for reporting lost or stolen E-money and lodging a complaint, including the manner on how the losses and liabilities from security breaches, system failure, or human error will be settled between the BSFI and its customers;

(7) Refund policy, including refund conditions, procedures, turn- around time and cost;

(8) Rights and responsibilities of users and merchants;

(9) User's and merchant's liability for damaged, lost, malfunctioned, or compromised e-wallet instrument or value, and fraudulent transaction; and

(10} Customer service contact number(s) as well as the details of the

Bangko Sentral Consumer Assistance Mechanism.

Users and merchants shall be notified at least thirty (30) calendar

days before any amendments/changes to the terms and conditions may take effect.

Page 3 of 12

## Page 4

e.

Interoperability of Systems. BSFls_ shall make its E-money products/services/platforms with fund transfer functionality interoperable by participating in an Automated Clearing House pursuant to the guidelines set under the National Retail Payment System (NRPS) Framework.

Aggregate Limits. BSFls shall adopt a client categorization process in order to implement pre-defined limits and thresholds based on institutional risk assessment and customer due diligence process. Provided, That: BSFls participating in payment systems (PS) shall adopt limits and thresholds consistent with those applied by the PS. In case a BSFI issues several E-money instruments to a person (E-money holder), the total transactions and/or amount loaded in all the E-money instruments shall be aggregated in determining compliance with the EMIs' established limit.

Liquidity Requirement. BSFls shall have sufficient liquid assets to meet E-money redemptions at all times and to protect the interest of the E- money holders. In this respect, BSFls shall maintain liquid assets at least equal to the amount of outstanding E-money issued for each currency in which the E-money obligations are denominated.

(1) BSFls with outstanding E-Money balance of at least P100,000,000.00, shall have unencumbered liquid assets ### comprised of the following:

(a) At least SO percent (50%) of the outstanding E-money balance’, shall be held in trust? for the specific purpose of E-money balance liquidation. The trust arrangement shall assure the preservation of principal amount and prudent management of funds.

EMIs shall ensure that the amount held in the trust account shall not fall below the required minimum trust account balance at any given day. Decline in required minimum trust account balance arising solely from marked-to-market losses shall not be considered a breach of the minimum requirement. Provided, That: the BSFI tops up the deficiency arising from aforesaid marked-to-market as of month-end within five (5) banking days after end of reference month.

(b) The remaining percentage of outstanding E-money balance ### shall be held in any of the following assets:

(i) bank deposits specifically earmarked for liquidity requirements of the E-money balances. This shall be maintained in accounts separate from other deposits of the BSF;

(ii) government securities earmarked and set aside for the purpose;

(iii) balance in the settlement account with the BSP that is used by a non-bank EMI specifically for the settlement of its net clearing obligations arising from electronic payments; and

? Required minimum trust account balance 5 Definition and requirements in accordance with Part IV of the MORB.

Page 4 of 12

## Page 5

(iv) such other liquid assets as the Bangko Sentral may allow.

(2) BSFis with outstanding E-Money balance below P100,000,000.00 ### may:

(a) Hold liquid assets following the requirements under (1) above; or

(b) Hold liquid assets equivalent to the total amount of outstanding E-Money balance as stated under 1.b above; or

(c) Hold such other liquid assets as the Bangko Sentral may allow.

Provided, that: the liquid assets as prescribed in Items “(1}(b)(ii)”, “(1}(b)(iv)” and “(2)(c)” meet the definition of High-Quality Liquid Assets under the Basel II] Framework on Liquidity Standards — Liquidity Coverage Ratio, pursuant to Appendix 72.

BSFls shall ensure that their current and prospective creditors understand that liquid assets maintained for safeguarding of outstanding E-money issued shall remain unencumbered and are not subject to attachment. Upon effectivity of this Circular, liquid assets being used to comply with the E-money liquidity requirements that are subject of encumbrances and attachments shall automatically lose their eligibility as a form compliance with the E-money liquidity requirements. Records pertaining to the above liquid assets shall be made available for inspection by the Bangko Sentral at any time.

BSFls shall have in place control mechanisms to ensure prompt accounting and recording of liquidity requirements particularly for multi-currency wallets.

Classifications of EMIs. Electronic money issuers shall be classified as

### follows:

a. EMI-Banks; and

b. EMI-Non-Bank Financial Institutions (EMI-NBFI), which includes cooperatives.

Capital Requirements. The term capital shall be as defined under Sec. 121. The required capital for EMI-Banks shall be the higher of: (a) the required minimum capitalization for banks depending on bank category or (b) the ### required minimum capitalization based on EMI category as follows:

EMI Category Large scale EMI-Bank Small scale EMI-Bank

Required Capital ### PHP 200,000,000 ### PHP 100,000,000

Review of aggregated transactions shall be done twelve (12) months after the commencement of EMI operations and quarterly assessment henceforth shall be done by the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral to assess the volume/value of EMI transactions. Consequently, an EMI-Bank shall be classified as Large scale if the twelve (12) month average value of aggregated inflow and outflow transactions is equal to or greater than P25.0 billion. Once classified as large scale, the EMI-Bank will no longer be classified as small scale unless approved by the

Page 5of 12

## Page 6

Bangko Sentral. EMI-Banks are expected to comply with the P200M capital requirement within one year from date of reclassification.

Reporting Requirements. BSFis shall maintain records and submit the required reports enumerated in Appendix 7 to the supervising department of the Bangko Sentral.

BSFls shall ensure that transaction and due diligence records are maintained for a period of at least five (5) years*, unless a longer period is required by law or by legal orders/processes. They shall likewise adhere to other relevant guidelines issued by the Bangko Sentral and other regulating authorities on record keeping and retention, and digitization of records as well as the manner of submission of required reports.

All changes and enhancements to the E-money platform shall be reported in accordance with the reportorial requirements of EPFS to the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral.

Sanctions.

Violations of the provisions of this Section shall constitute grounds for the imposition of sanctions on the BSFI and/or its directors/officers or a combination of the following in accordance with the Bangko Sentral ### supervisory enforcement policy under Sec.002:

a. Monetary penalty —- any amount as may be authorized by the Monetary Board not to exceed P100,000 a day for each violation from the time the violation was committed until it is corrected.

In the case of BSFIs with outstanding E-Money balance of at least P100,000,000.00 with trust account falling below the required minimum trust account balance, the amount of monetary penalty shall be at one percent (1%) of the deficiency to meet the required minimum trust account balance but not to exceed P100,000 per day.

b. Non-monetary sanction ~ any sanctions that the Monetary Board may deem appropriate and allowed by law considering the gravity of the offense.

EMis without the appropriate approval from the Bangko Sentral. Any entity or person found to be engaging in EMI operations without prior approval of the Bangko Sentral shall be subject to appropriate enforcement action/s, without prejudice to the pursuit of any legal action against the owners and operators of the entity pursuant to Secs. 18 and 19 of Republic Act No. 1121] (The New Central Bank Act).

Registration with the AMLC. in line with the authority of the Bangko Sentral to check compliance of BSFls with Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, or the Anti-Money Laundering Act (AMLA), Republic Act No. 10168 or the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act (TFPSA), their respective IRR, and other AMLC and Bangko Sentral issuances, BSFIs shall also secure a Certificate of Registration with the AMLC pursuant to the 2021 AMLC Registration and Reporting Guidelines.

* The reckoning date of 5S years is from the date of transaction or date of submission of documents

Page 6 of 12

## Page 7

Failure to commence EMI operations. The authority to engage in E- money business shall be revoked if the BSFI does not commence E-money operations within six (6) months after receipt of the notice of approval of its EMI license, unless a longer period has been approved by the Bangko Sentral. Likewise, EMI license of BSFls that has become inactive for a period of more than 6 months after commencement of operations shall also be revoked.

Outsourcing of services by Electronic Money Issuers (EMIs) to Electronic Money Network Service Providers (EMNSP). The guidelines on outsourcing of services by EMIs to EMNSP are shown in Appendix 98.

Sanctions. Violations committed by EMIs pertaining to outsourcing activities to EMNSP shall be subject to monetary penalties as graduated under Sec. 1102 and/or other non-monetary sanctions under Sec. 37 of RA No. 7653.

Section 2. Applicability to non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs). The provisions under Section 1 of this Circular shall likewise apply to NBFls, particularly to quasi-banks, non-stock savings and loan associations, and other NBFIs including cooperatives and shall be codified under Secs. 702-Q, 402-S, and 402-N with some ### amendments, as follows:

a. The subtitle on Application for authority to offer E-money services ### shall be replaced by subtitle on Certificate of Authority as follows:

Certificate of Authority. BSFis planning to be EMI-NBFis shall apply in accordance with the guidelines on outsourcing and electronic services and operations, when applicable. Said procedures for applying for an EMI license as well as licensing requirements are specified in the Bangko Sentral Citizen's Charter.

EMI-NBFls shall also comply with pertinent Bangko Sentral rules

### and regulations covering the following areas, among others:

### (a) Electronic Payment and Financial Services (EPFS):

(b) Liquidity Risk Management;

### (c) Operational Risk Management and Internal Control:

(d) IT Risk Management including the area of IT Outsourcing/Vendor Management;

(e) Payment Systems;

(f) Anti-Money Laundering and Countering Terrorist and Proliferation Financing;

(g) Financial Consumer Protection;

(h) Corporate Governance;

(i) Requirements for beneficial owners as specified in Part 9 of the Q-Regulations/Part 6 of the S-Regulations/Part 6 of N- Regulations which shall apply not only during license application but whenever there is a significant change in ownership; and

(j) Requirements for Money Service Business registration as

specified in Sec. 901-N.

EMI-NBFls that engage in lending activities must secure a quasi- banking license from the Bangko Sentral in accordance with the requirements of the Sec. 111-Q.

Page 7 of 12

## Page 8

b. The following provisions shall be added under Aggregate Limits (item 6 ### of subtitle Governance) as last paragraph:

For large value pay-outs of more than P500,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency, in any single transaction with customers or counterparties, enhanced due diligence shall be conducted and said pay-outs shall be done through banks using check payments or electronic fund transfer facilities.

c. Provision on Liquidity Requirement shall be replaced by the following ### paragraph:

Provided, that: the liquid assets as prescribed in Items “(1)(b)(ii)”, “(1)(b)(iv)” and “(2)(c)” meet the definition of High-Quality Liquid Assets under the Basel Ill Framework on Liquidity Standards — Liquidity Coverage Ratio, pursuant to Appendix Q-82.

d. The provisions on Capital Requirements shall be replaced by the ### following:

Capital Requirements. The term capital shall be as defined under Secs. 121-Q (combined capital accounts)/121-S (capital of NSSLAs). The required capital for EMI-NBFls shall be the higher of: (a) the required minimum capitalization for NBFls depending on NBFI type? or (b) the ### required minimum capitalization based on EMI category as follows:

EMI Catego Required Capital Large scale EMI-NBFI PHP 200,000,000 Small scale EMI-NBFI PHP 100,000,000

Review of aggregated transactions shall be done twelve (12) months after the commencement of EMI operations and quarterly assessment henceforth shall be done by the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral to assess the volume/value of EMI transactions. Consequently, an EMI-NBFI shall be classified as Large scale if the twelve (12) month average value of aggregated inflow and outflow transactions is equal to or greater than P25.0 billion. Once classified as large scale, the EMI-NBFI will no longer be classified as small scale unless approved by the Bangko Sentral. EMI-NBFls are expected to comply with the P200M capital requirement within one year from date of reclassification.

e. The subtitle on Reporting Requirements shall be replaced by the ### following:

Notification and Reporting Requirements. BSFis shall comply with the notification and reporting requirements as prescribed under Sec. 901-N and Appendices Q-3/S-2/N-1. In addition, BSFIs shall maintain records and submit the appropriate reports to the supervising department of ### the Bangko Sentral:

° Cooperatives which are among the EMI-NBFls shall maintain the higher of the required minimum capital for EMI-NBFils under these guidelines and that prescribed by applicable provisions under Republic Act No.9520 or the Philippine Cooperative Code of 2008.

Page 8 of 12

## Page 9

BSFls shall ensure that transaction and due diligence records are maintained for a period of at least five (5) years®, unless a longer period is required by law or by legal orders/processes. They shall likewise adhere to other relevant guidelines issued by the Bangko Sentral and other regulating authorities on record keeping and retention, and digitization of records as well as the manner of submission of required reports.

All changes and enhancements to the E-money platform shall be reported in accordance with the reportorial requirements of EPFS to the appropriate department of the Bangko Sentral.

### f. The first paragraph of subtitle on Sanctions shall be replaced as follows:

Sanctions. Violations of the provisions of this Section shall constitute grounds for the imposition of sanctions on the BSFI and/or its directors/officers or a combination of the following in accordance with ### the Bangko Sentral supervisory enforcement policy under Sec.002-Q/:

g. Subtitle on Voluntary Closure of EMI Business or Surrender of EMI License shall be added after the subtitle on Registration with the ### AMLC as follows:

Voluntary Closure of EMI Business or Surrender of EMI License. Any EMI-NBFI who wishes to cease carrying on with the business or activity of issuance of E-money shall comply with the requirements on voluntary closure under Appendix Q-60/ Secs. 104-S/901-N.

h. Subtitle on Outsourcing of services by Electronic Money Issuers (EMIs) to Electronic Money Network Service Providers (EMNSP) shall ### be replaced as follows:

Outsourcing of services by Electronic Money Issuers (EMis) to Electronic Money Network Service Providers (EMNSP). The guidelines on outsourcing of services by EMIs to EMNSP are shown in Appendix Q- 56.

Sanctions. Violations committed by EMIs pertaining to outsourcing activities to EMNSP shall be subject to monetary penalties as graduated under Sec. 1102-Q (Guidelines on the imposition of monetary penalty) and/or other non-monetary sanctions under Sec. 37 of RA No. 7653.

### Section 3. Appendix 7 is hereby amended to include the following reports:

Category I Form MORB I Report Title Frequency I Submission I Submission Number Deadline Procedure (Annex Number)

Quarterly Report Quarterly I Fifteen (15) I email to

on Total Volume banking appropriate and Value of E- days from supervising money transacted end of departments (Duly certified by reference

the President or quarter

° The reckoning date of 5 years is from the date of transaction or date of submission of documents

Page 9 of 12

## Page 10

any officer holding equivalent position)

For BSFls with outstanding EMI balance of at least ### P100,000,000.00

Certification

On Month -end Trust Account Balance

Signed by the President/CEO/any officer holding equivalent position), accompanied bya Statement of

Monthly 15 banking days after the end of the reference month

### A A-2 702 Account from the Trust Entity as of month-end indicating the outstanding balance of their trust account and all transactions during the reporting period showing at least the transaction date, description, debit/credit amount and ending balance per transaction

A A-2 702 List of operating offices and digital platforms of EMIs (Duly certified by the President or any officer holding equivalent position)

Semestral

Fifteen (15) banking days from end of reference semester

email to appropriate supervising departments

email to appropriate supervising departments

Section 4. Appendices Q-3/S-2/N-1 are hereby amended to include the following

### reports:

Category I Form Number (Annex Number)

MORNB I Report Title Fl Ref.

Audit Financial Statement (AFS) (audited by an external auditor included in the

Frequency

Not later than 120 calendar

Annually

Submission Deadline

days after the close of

Submission Procedure

email to appropriate supervising departments

Page 10 of 12

## Page 11

List of Selected External Auditors for NBFls}

### A-2

Unnumber ed

Sec. ### 702-Q/ ### 402-S/ ### 402-N

Quarterly Report on Total Volume and Value of E-money transacted (Duly certified by the President or any officer holding equivalent position)

For BSFls with outstanding EMI balance of at least ### P100,000,000.00

Certification

On Month -end Trust Account Balance

Signed by the President/CEO/a

ny officer holding

equivalent position), accompanied by a Statement of

Account from the

Trust Entity as of month-end indicating the outstanding balance of their trust account and all transactions during the reporting period showing at least the transaction date, description, debit/credit amount and ending balance per transaction

Quarterly

Monthly

the reference

calendar or

fiscal year subject to the provisions under Sec. ### 901-N

Fifteen (15) banking days from end of reference quarter

15 banking days after the end of the reference month

email to appropriate supervising departments

email to appropriate supervising department Ss

### A-2

Sec.

### 702-Q/

List of operating

offices and digital platforms of EMis

Semestral

Fifteen (15) banking days from

email to appropriate

Page ll of 12

## Page 12

end of reference semester

(Duly certified by the President or any officer holding equivalent position)

Changes and Enhancement to the E-Money Platform in accordance with the Reportorial Requirements of ### EPFS

supervising departments

email to appropriate supervising departments

Semestral I Fifteen (15) banking days from end of reference

semester

Section 5. Transitory Provision. Existing BSFls authorized to issue E-money or engage in E-money operations shall submit the following to the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral not later than three (3) months ### from effectivity of this Circular:

a. Acertification, signed by the President or Officer with equivalent rank and function, that the BSFI is in compliance with all the applicable requirements of this Section; and

b. Accomplished gap assessment template as prescribed by the Bangko Sentral (Appendix A for Banks and Appendix B for NBFls of this Circular), specifying the plan of actions it will undertake, with the corresponding timelines not exceeding one (1) year from the date of issuance of this Circular, to conform with the provisions it has yet to fully comply with.

BSFIs may continue to operate their business pending submission of the Certification unless instructed otherwise. Failure to comply with these

requirements within the prescribed timelines shall subject the entity to the appropriate enforcement action provided under Sec. 002/002-Q/002-S/001-N.

Section 6. The Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days following its publication in the Official Gazette or any newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

Fp Lae

### FELIPE M. MEDALLA Governor

FF February 2023

Page 12 of 12

## Page 13

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-Bank

Appendix A

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s

Action Plan/s

Governance. Ie following guidelines shall govern the issuance and

operations of

### E-money:

### BSFls shall ensure that the following are in place: (1) Sound and prudent accounting procedures

### mechanisms: (2) Properly-designed computer systems which a ¢ dently tested! prior to implementation; security policies and measures int safeguard the integrity, authenticity, and confidentiality of data and operatin (4) Robust sele

actly

and indep (3) Appropriate

g Cc

ties;

Effec secu

dequate busines

tive audit fu ity control en

Orocesses; tion criteria and du ccrediting E-money agents and merchant/ou ### nd criteria for periodic performance review:

(5) Fraud risk management system that is commensu isks associated with particular EMI classification or soecific EMI

Ss conti nection ViIronrr

©

management, admi and adequate internal control

Minimum Systems and Controls. Prior to issuance of

istra

e thoroughly

E-money.

tive and

nded to

diligence p

siness partners

rate to th

rocess_ In

t and critical systen

uity and disaster recovery plan; and

to provide periodic review of the

### 1S.

b. E-money

mot be purchased at a

shall only be

the custo

money used to purc noney denominated in foreig foreign exchange rules and reg

ers accou

issued discou t bala

Nase it.

considered a deposit. It shall

a

### {QO

### YY

ulations. Moreover,

d redeemed at face value. It shall t wherein the E-mo e is higher than the e issuance and operati currency shall be subject to existing

eyc amo

E-Mo

mot earn interest and other similar

edited to unt of fiat ons of E-

ey is not

' These includ

independent testing of security contro

s by third-party service providers

Page I of 6

## Page 14

Appendix A Name of EMI-Bank Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

BSP Regulatory Provisions BSFI’s Existing Controls Gap/s Action Plan/s

incentives convertible to cash that may be construed as earning of interest. BSFIs may offer promotional incentives that are not based on the outstanding balance of t -wallet to encourage greater usage and attract new users

Consumer Protection. BSFIs are required to strictly adhere to Bangko Sentral regulations on Financial Consumer protection as prescribed under Part Ten. BSFlIs shall adhere to the expectations provided under this regulation covering the following core ### orincioles: ### (1) Disclosure and transparency of E-money transactions: ### ) Protection of client information:

### ) Fair treatment of E-money customers:

) Effective recourse in place for handling complaints and redress echanisms; and (5) Protection of E-money Consumer Assets against Fraud and iSUSe.

Minimum Disclosure Reguirements. BSFls shall provide clear terms and conditions on the use of E-money, which should be made available through various channels, including the BSFI’s website, brochures, and registration form (user's and merchant's copy). BSFls must obtain acknowledgement from their users and merchants that they have read and understood the terms and conditions prior to their availment of E-money services. Tne terms and conditions ### shall include the following information, among others: (1) Issuer of the E-money who is ultimately responsible to the E-money holders;

### (2) Type of transactions that can be made using the E-money:

### (3) All applicable fees and charges:

(4) FX risks and basis of applicable exchange rates for FX transactions using the application for multi-currency E money ### wallets:

(5) Availability of users transaction history and/or statement of ### account:

(6) Procedures for reporting lost or stolen E-money and lodging a

complaint, including the manner on how the losses and

Page 2 of 6

## Page 15

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-Bank

Appendix A

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s

Action Plan/s

(IO) Customer service contact

will be settled between th

Refund policy, including ### around time and cost: Rights and responsibilities

transaction; and

or compromised e-wallet i

e

### MU

Bangko Sentral Consume

Users and merchants sha calend

of Users and merchant's liability for damaged, lost, malfunctioned, strument or value, and fraudulent

Assistance Mecha

users and merc

mboer(s) as well as

I be notified at

iabilities from security breaches, system failure, or human error ### BSFI and its Customers: fund conditions, procedures, turn-

### ants:

the details of the ism.

least thirty (0)

ar days before any amendments/changes to the terms and conditions may take effect.

Interoperability. of Systerns. BSFls shall make its E-money

products/services/olatforms

Ww

interoperable by participating

pursue

th fund transfer functionality in an Automated mt to the guidelines set under the Nationa Systems (NRPS) Framework

Clearing House I Retail Payment

Aggregate Limits. BSFIs shall adopt a c

in order to implement pre-d institutional risk assessment and custo due d Provided That: BSFls participating in payment systems (PS) shall

adopt

fi

lient categorization process d limits and thresholds based on

imits and thresholds consistent wit

PS. In case a BSFI issues several E money instrum

al

compliance with the EMls' established limit.

(E-money holder, the total transactions and/or amount loaded in the E-money instruments shall be agg

iligence process.

those applied by the

ents to a person

gated in determining

m of

fo

Liguidli

each currency in which denominated.

ty Requirement BSFls shall have sufficient liquid assets to eet E-money redemptions at all times and to protect the interest

the E-money holders. In this respect, BSFis shal assets at least equal to the amount of outstanding

the E-money

I maintain liquid E-money issued obligations are

Page 3 of 6

## Page 16

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-Bank

Appendix A

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s

Action Plan/s

(1) BSFls PIO0,000,000.00, sha ### comprised of the following:

(a) At least 50 percen balance? shall be h E-money balance assure the preserva anagement of fu

### EMI

arisi

with

The

bala account

osses sha equ ng from aforesaid in five (5) banking days aft

with outstand

s shall ensure

igu

ng have unencumbered

t

tio

Os.

at

E-Money balance of at

least

liquid assets

50%) of the outstanding E-money

eld in trust® for the specific puroose of idation. The trust arrangement shall of principal amount and prudent

shall not fall below th ce, at any day. oalance aris I] not be co

Decline in required minimum

ing solely from marked-to-market sidered 2 breach of the minimu irement. Provided’ That: the BSFI tops up t marked-to-market as of month-e nd of reference month.

### balance shall be held in any of the following assets: bank deposits specifically earmarked for liquidity

### the BSFI:

equirements of the E-money balances. This sha aintained in accounts separate from other deposits of

### purpose:

alance in the sett

government securities earmarked and set aside fo

OOCfC DO

ayments: and

low.

ow

the amount held in trust account required minimum trust account

e deficien

trust

### O82 3

remaining percentage of outstanding E-money

I be

the

ment account with the BSP that is sed by a non-bank EMI specifically for the settle its net clearing obligations arising from electronic

nent

uch other liquid assets as the Bangko Sentral may

Required minimum trust account balance

Definition and requirements in accordance with Part IV of the MORB.

Page 4 of 6

## Page 17

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-Bank

Appendix A

SP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s

Action Plan/s

(2) BSFls with ### P1O00,000,000

outstanding ### O00 may:

E-Money — balance

below

(a) Hold liquid assets following the requirements under (1)

bove: or (60) Hold ligu

@

### O

id assets equivalent to the total amount of

### outstanding E-Money balance as stated under (])() above:

(c) Hold such other liquid assets as the Bangko Sentral may

allow.

Provided, that: the liquid assets as prescribed in Items “(1)(p)(ii)”,

ssets Under th

“()(o)(ivy” and “(2)(c)". meet the definition of High-Quality Liquid

Basel Ill Framework on Liguidity Standards -

Liquidity Coverage Ratio, pursuant to Aopendix 72.

BSFls shall ensure that their current and prospective c

Understand that

outstanding E-money issued shall remain unencumbe tachment. Upon effectivity of this Circular,

ot subject to at

equirements tha shall automatical the E-money lig

Bangko Sentral a

liquid assets maintained for safeg

t are subject of encumbrances and a y lose their eligibility as a form comp uidity requirements. Records pertain

t any time.

editors

uarding of ed and are

assets being used to comply with the E-money I ttac

above liquid assets shall be made available for inspection

ian g

liquid iquidity ents ce with to the

BSFls shall have in place control mechanisms to ensure ecording of liquidity requirements particularly for

accounting and r

multi-currency wallets.

by the

prompt

Capital Requirements. The term capital shall be as defined under Section 121. The required capital for EMI-Banks shall be the higher of.

(a) the required minimum capitalizat category or (6) the required minim

### category as follows:

ion for banks depending on be um capitalization based on

### IT] ® =

Page 5 of 6

## Page 18

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-Bank

Appendix A

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s

Action Plan/s

Required Capital ### PHP 200,000,000 ### PHP 100,000,000

EMI Category Large scale EMI-Bank Small scale EMII-Bank

Review of aggregated transactions shall be done twelve (12) months

after the commencement of EMI operations and quarterly assessment henceforth shall be done by the appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral to assess the volume/value of EMI transactions. Consequently, an EMI Bank shall be classified as Large scale if the twelve (12) month average value of aggregated inflow and outflow transactions is equal to or greater than P25.0 billion. Once classified as large scale, the EMI-Bank will no longer be classified as small scale unless approved by the Bangko Sentral. EMII-Banks are expected to comply with the P200M capital requirement within one year from date of reclassification.

Registration with the AMLC Ir \ine with the authority of the Bangko Sentral to check compliance of BSFls with Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, or the Anti-Money Laundering Act (AMLA), Republic Act No. 10168 or the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act (TFPSA), their respective IRR, and other AMLC and Bangko Sentral issuances, BSFls shall also secure a Certificate of Registration with the AMLC pursuant to the 2021 AMLC Registration and Reporting Guidelines.

Page 6 of 6

## Page 19

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-NBFI

Appendix B

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Action Plan/s

Gap/s

Certificate of Authority. 3SF\s olanning to be EMI-NBFI shall apply in accordance with the guidelines on outsourcing and electronic services and operations, when applicable. Said procedures for applying for an EMI license as well as licensing requirements are specified in the Bangko Sentral Citizen’s Charter.

EMI-NBFls shall also comply with pertinent Bangko Sentral rules ### and regulations covering the following areas, among others:

### a) Electronic Payment and Financial Services (EPFS):

### b) Liquidity Risk Management:

### c) Operational Risk Management and Internal Control:

d) IT — Ris Management including the area of IT ### Outsourcing/Vendor Management:

( ( ( (

### (e) Payment Systems:

() Anti-Money Laundering and Countering Terrorist and ### Proliferation Financing:

(g) Financial Consumer Protection;

### (fA) Corporate Governance:

Requirements for beneficial owners as specified in Part 9 of tne Q-Regulations/Part 6 of the S-Regulations/Part 6 of the N- Regulations which shall apply not only during license application but whenever there is a significant change in ownershio; and (j) Requirements for Money Service Business registration as

specified in Sec. 9OI-N.

EMI-NBFls that engage in lending activities must secure a quasi- banking license from the Bangko Sentral in accordance with the requirements of Sec. 11]-Q.

Governance. Ie following guidelines shall govern the issuance and

### operations of E-money:

Page 1 of 8

## Page 20

Appendix B Name of EMI-NBFI Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

BSP Regulatory Provisions BSFI’s Existing Controls Gap/s Action Plan/s

Minimum Systems and Controls. Prior to issuance of E-money,

### BSFls shall ensure that the following are in place:

(1) Sound and prudent management, administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control ### mechanisms:

(2) Properly-designed computer systems which are thoroughly

### and independently tested! prior to implementation:

(3) Appropriate security policies and measures intended to

safeguard the integrity, authenticity, and confidentiality of data

### and operating processes:

(4) Robust selection criteria and due diligence process in

ccrediting E-money agents and merchant/bousiness partners

### nd criteria for periodic performance review:

(5) Fraud risk management system that is commensurate to th

isks associated with particular EMI classification or soecific EMI

activities;

(6) Adequate business continuity and disaster recovery plan; and

(7) Effective audit function to provide periodic review of the

security control environment and critical systems.

g Cc

b. E-money shall only be issued and redeemed at face value. It shal mot be purchased at a discount wherein the E-money credited to the customer's account balance is higher than the amount of fiat money used to purchase it. The issuance and operations of E-money denominated in foreign currency shall be subject to existing foreign exchange rules and regulations. Moreover, E-money is not considered a deposit. It shall not earn interest and othe similar incentives convertible to cash that may be construed as earning of interest. BSFIs may offer promotional incentives that are not based on the outstanding balance of the e-wallet to encourage greater usage and attract new users.

c. Consumer Protection. BSFIs are required to strictly adhere to Bangko Sentral regulations on Financial Consumer protection as prescribed under Part Ten. BSFls shall adhere to the expectations

' These include independent testing of security controls by third-party service providers

Page 2 of 8

## Page 21

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-NBFI

Appendix B

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s

Action Plan/s

provided under this

### orincioles: Disclosure and transparency of E-money transactions; ### Protection of client information:

### Fair treatment of E-money customers:

echanisms; and

iSUSe.

regulation covering the following core

Effective recourse in place for handling complaints and redress

Protection of E-money Consumer Assets against Fraud and

Minimum Disclosure Reguirements. BSFls shall provide clear terms

and aval

brochures, and

conditions on the use of E-money, which should be made able through various channels, including the BSFI’s website. registration form (user's and merchant's copy). BSFls

must obtain acknowledgement from their users and merchants

that they have

tot

sha

(1)

E-money holders;

### wallets:

read and understood the terms and conditions prior heir availment of E-money services. The terms and conditions ### include the following information, among others: ssuer of the E-money who is ultimately responsible to the

### Type of transactions that can be made using the E-money;: All applicable fees and charges; FX risks and basis of applicable exchange rates for FX transactions using the application for multi-currency E money

Availability of user's transaction history and/or statement of

### account: Procedures for repo complaint, includin iabilities fromm secur will be settled betw

ti g ity

g lost or stolen E-money and lodging a the manner on how the losses and breaches, system failure, or human error

around time and co

Refund policy, includi

St;

User's and mercnan

transaction; and

### US

the BSFI and its customers; ng refund conditions, procedures, turn-

### Rights and responsibilities of users and merchants:

iability for darnaged, lost, malfunctioned,

or compromised e-wallet instrument or value, and fraudulent

Page 3 of 8

## Page 22

Appendix B Name of EMI-NBFI Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

BSP Regulatory Provisions BSFI’s Existing Controls Gap/s Action Plan/s

(IO) Customer service contact number(s) as well as the details of the Bangko Sentral Consumer Assistance Mechanism.

Users and merchants shall be notified at least thirty (30) calendar days before any amendments/changes to the terms and conditions may take effect.

Interoperability. of Systerns. BSFls shall make its E-money products/services/platforms with fund transfer functionality interoperable by participating in an Automated Clearing House pursuant to the guidelines set under the National Retail Payment Systems (NRPS) Framework

Aggregate Limits. BSFIs shall adopt a client categorization process in order to implement pre-defined limits and thresholds based on institutional risk assessment and custo due diligence process. Provided That: BSFls participating in payment systems (PS) shal adopt limits and thresholds consistent with those applied by the PS. In case a BSFI issues several E money instruments to a person (E-money holder), the total transactions and/or amount loaded in all the E-money instruments shall be aggregated in determining compliance with the EMls' established limit.

For large value pay-outs of more than P500,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency, in any single transaction with customers or counterparties, ennanced due diligence shall be conducted and said pay-outs shall be done through banks using check payments or electronic fund transfer facilities.

Liquidity Requirement. BSFls shall have sufficient liquid assets to meet E-money redemptions at all times and to protect the interest of the E-money holders. In this respect, BSFIs shall maintain liquid assets at least equal to the amount of outstanding E-money issued for each currency in which the E-money obligations are denominated. (1) BSFIs with outstanding E-Money balance of at least PIOO,000,000.00, shall Nave unencumbered liquid assets ### comprised of the following:

Page 4 of 8

## Page 23

Appendix B Name of EMI-NBFI

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

BSP Regulatory Provisions BSFI’s Existing Controls Gap/s Action Plan/s

(a) At least 50 percent (50%) of the outstanding E-money

balance?’ shall be held in trust® for the specific purpose of E-money balance liquidation. The trust arrangement shall assure the preservation of princioal amount and prudent anagement of funds.

EMIs shall ensure that the amount held in trust account shall not fall below the required minimum trust account balance, at any day. Decline in required minimum trust account balance arising solely from marked-to-market osses Shall not be considered a breach of the minimum equirement. Provided That: the BSFI tops up the deficiency arising from aforesaid marked-to-market as of month-end within five (5) banking days aft nd of reference month.

onl

(o) The remaining percentage of outstanding E-money ### balance shall be held in any of the following assets: (i) bank deposits specifically earmarked for liquidity

equirements of the E-money balances. This shall be aintained in accounts separate from other deposits of ### the BSFI:

(ii) Qovernment securities earmarked and set aside for the ### Ouroose:

(iii) balance in the settlement account with the BSP that is used by a non-bank EMI specifically for the settlement of its net clearing obligations arising from electronic payments; and

(iv) such other liquid assets as the Bangko Sentral may allow.

(2) BSFIs with outstanding E-Money balance below

### PIOO,000,000.00 May:

Required minimum trust account balance Definition and requirements in accordance with Part IV of the MORB.

Page 5 of 8

## Page 24

Name of EMI-NBFI

Appendix B

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s Action Plan/s

(a) Hold liquid assets following the requirements under above; or

(0) Hold liquid assets equivalent to the total amount outstanding E-Money balance as stated under (1)(b) abo

(1)

of Ve;

(c) Hold such other liquid assets as the Bangko Sentral may

allow.

Provided, that: the liquid assets as prescribed in Items “(I)(6)(

(1)

ii)’,

b)(iv)” and “(2)(c)’, meet the definition of High-Quality Liquid

ssets Under the Basel Ill Framework on Liquidity Standards -

Liquidity Coverage Ratio, pursuant to Appendix Q-82.

understand that liquid assets maintained for safeguarding

BSFls shall ensure that their current and prospective creditors

of

outstanding E-money issued shall remain unencumbered and are

assets being used to comply with the E-money liquid

the E-money liquidity requirements. Records pertaini to t above liquid assets shall be made available for inspection by t Bangko Sentral at any time.

©

accounting and recording of liquidity requirements particularly miulti-currency wallets.

ot subject to attachment. Upon effectivity of this Circular, liquid

ity

equirements that are subject of encumbrances and attachments shall automatically lose their eligibility as a form compliance wi

th he he

BSFls shall have in place control mechanisms to ensure prompt

fOr

Capital Requirements. The term capital shall be as defined under Sections 121-Q (combined capital accounts)/12\-S (capital of NSSLAs).

The required capital for EMI-NBFls shall be the higher of: (a) t

Ne

required minimum capitalization for NBFls depending on NBFI type’

or (6) the required minimum capitalization based on EMI category ### follows:

as

“Cooperatives which are among the EMI-NBFis shall maintain the hi provisions under Republic Act No. 9520 or the Philippine Cooperat

gher of the required minimum capital for EMI-N

BFls under these guidelines and that prescribed by applicable

ive Code of 2008.

Page 6 of 8

## Page 25

Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

Name of EMI-NBFI

Appendix B

BSP Regulatory Provisions

BSFI’s Existing Controls

Gap/s

Action Plan/s

EMI Category

Required

Capital

Large scale EMI-NBEFI

### PHP 200,000,000

Small scale EMI-NBFI

### PHP 100,000,000

Review of aggregated transactions shall be done twelve (12) months after the commencement of EMI operations and quarterly assessment henceforth shall be done by the appropriate supervising department

of the Bangko Sen Consequently, an

tral to assess the volume/va EMI-NBFI shall be classified as Large scale if the

ue of EMI transactions.

twelve (12) month average value of aggregated inflow and outflow transactions is equal to or greater than P25.0 billion. Once classified as large scale, the EMI-NBFI will no longer unless approved by the Ba comply with the P200M cap

of reclassificati

### O

1.

ygko Sentral.

be classified

as small scale

EMI-NBFls are expected to ital requirement within one

year from date

Notification and Reporting Requirements. 3SF\s shall comply with the notification and repor Sec. 9OI-N and Aopendices Q-3/S-2/N-]. In additio

maintain records and submit

department of

BSFls sh e maintained

all ensure th

a p adhere to oth ### O d

reports.

the Bangko Sentral.

for a period of at least fi eriod is required by law or by legal orders/orocesses. Th relevant guidelines issued by the Bang ther regulating authorities on record igitization of records as well as th

the appropr

at transactio

iate reports to

y and due dili

ting requirements as prescribed under

\, BSFIs_ shall

the supervising

gence records

ve (5) years®?, unless a longer

eeping and

All changes and enhancements to the reported in accordance with the reportori

E-money pla

the appropriate department of the Bangko Sentral.

y shall likewise o Sentral and etention, and

manner of submission of required

tform shall be

al requirements of EPFS to

° The reckoning date of 5 years is from the da

te of transactio

n or date of suemission of documents

Page 7 of 8

## Page 26

Appendix B Name of EMI-NBFI Gap Assessment on Circular No. 1166 dated 7 February 2023

BSP Regulatory Provisions BSFI’s Existing Controls Gap/s Action Plan/s

Registration with the AMLC Ir \ine with the authority of the Bangko Sentral to check compliance of BSFls with Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, or the Anti-Money Laundering Act (AMLA), Republic Act No. 10168 or the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act (TFPSA), their respective IRR, and other AMLC and Bangko Sentral issuances, BSFls shall also secure a Certificate of Registration with the AMLC pursuant to the 2021 AMLC Registration and Reporting Guidelines.

