# 1171

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. _1]171 Series of 2023

Subject: Amendments to foreign exchange regulations

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 384 dated 23 March 2023, approved the following rules and regulations ### governing foreign exchange (FX) transactions:

SECTION 1. The following provisions of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual, issued under Circular No. 645 dated 13 February 2009, as amended) are ### further revised as follows:

### “PART ONE. RULES ON FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSACTIONS Chapter I ### GENERAL PROVISIONS

### XXX

4. Electronic Submission of Documents’. The duly accomplished application forms and/or supporting documents? for the following may be submitted through electronic means (unless otherwise indicated under the FX Manual*) to the BSP or AABs/AAB forex

### corps’: a. XXX; b. XXX; c. other requests to the BSP not covered by items (a) and (b}; and d. Xxx

1 Xxx

The BSP-international Operations Department (!OD) application forms (including notice/notification to the BSP using Annex €£.3) without electronic signatures/digital signatures may also be submitted, Provided, that same shall be accompanied with the required attestation under this Section.

2 (a) Including BSP-issued documents [e.g., BSP letter-approval, Bangko Sentral Registration Document (BSRD)] (b) Supporting documents need not be notarized (unless otherwise provided for by applicable law/s), subject to the required attestation under this Section.

3 E.g., certain documents under Appendix 10.C

### 4 XXX

5 Said requests shall be accompanied with the required attestation under this Section.

## Page 2

### XXX

For BSP-issued documents in electronic form®, AABs/AAB forex corps shall verify with the BSP, through the IOD, the authenticity of said documents submitted by the client prior to FX sale/deposit of funds to a peso deposit account of non-resident, as applicable.’

Processing fees. Applications for approval/registration of foreign/foreign currency loans/borrowings, inward investments and other FX transactions filed with the BSP-IOD shall be free of charge, unless otherwise indicated under the FX Manual.

Reporting to BSP under FX Form 1 and FX Form 1A (FX Form 1/1A). ### XXX

The terms used herein are as defined in the “Glossary of Terms” xxx

### XXX

Section 3. Peso Deposit Accounts® of Non-Residents

1. Funding for Peso Deposit Accounts of Non-residents.

Non-residents (including foreign banks) may open/maintain peso deposit accounts with AABs operating in the Philippines xxx subject to submission to the depository AABs of documents listed under ### Appendix 1.1 (regardless of amount of deposit):

a. XXX b. xxx and (ii) properties in the Philippines allowed to be owned by non-residents under existing laws’;

### XXX

Starting 27 March 2020, all BSP-issued documents shall be in electronic form unless otherwise indicated. Said documents issued in electronic form (e.g., BSP letter-approval, provisional BSRDs) shall remain valid even after the period covered by Circular No. 1080 dated 27 March 2020. Hence, the BSP shall no longer issue original hardcopies to replace the electronically-issued BSP documents.

The required verification with the BSP, through the IOD, shall apply to initial submission by the client to the Head Office/each branch of AAB/AAB forex corp of BSP-issued document in electronic form covering the specific underlying transaction/s, as applicable. Said verification shall not apply to: (a) documents issued by the BSP before 27 March 2020; (b) documents issued by registering AABs on behalf of the BSP (i.e. BSRD, BSRDLA), regardless of date of issuance; and (c) subsequent submission by the client to the Head Office/same branch of AAB/AAB forex corp which previously verified the same documents with the BSP, as applicable.

These exclude settlement/clearing accounts xxx

Excluding condominium units that shall be registered with the BSP and supported by documents under item 2 of Appendix 1.1

Page 2 of 7

## Page 3

### PART THREE. FINANCIAL ACCOUNT TRANSACTIONS Chapter I

### LOANS/BORROWINGS AND GUARANTEES

Section 22. General Policy. xxx xXX

6. Applications for BSP approval/registration of loans shall be filed through the BSP’s online system and shall be free of charge.

### XX X

8. For statistical purposes, all foreign loans/borrowings (including those in the form of bonds/notes/other debt instruments), whether BSP-approved/registered or not, shall be regularly reported to the BSP-IOD, using the prescribed forms (Annexes E.1, E.2, and E.3'°) within the prescribed deadline until the obligations are fully extinguished".

Section 23. Public Sector’ Loans/Borrowings - xX X X

3. Applications"® for approval of foreign/foreign currency loans/ borrowings shall be submitted xxx

xX X

Section 24. Private Sector Loans/Borrowings - xX X

2. Private sector foreign loans/borrowings (including those in the form of bonds/notes/other debt instruments issued offshore) that ### are xxx. The borrower shall:

### 10 XXX

"Includes debt to equity conversion

### 12 XXX

3 Applications for review and clearance by the inter-Agency Committee for Review of Foreign Loan Documents (IAC-RFLD) of foreign loan documents/agreements of GOCCs shall be charged with a processing fee of PHP20,000 per loan account, which is non-refundable regardless of IAC-RFLD’s action relative to the request. Applications requested to be treated on a rush basis shall be charged twice the foregoing rate. Payments shall be made to the BSP or through AABs participating in the BSP’s online system, supported by an Order of Payment from the BSP-IOD.

Page 3 of 7

## Page 4

a. Submit a Notice to the BSP (Annex E.3), supported with a copy of the signed covering agreement(s)/document(s), ### within one (1) month from date of signing”:

### X XX

4. Private sector foreign loans/borrowings that are not publicly-guaranteed obtained without the requisite BSP approval’* may be registered with the BSP to allow servicing using FX resources of AABs/AAB forex corps.

5. For conversion of registered foreign loans/borrowings to equity, the BSRD shall be surrendered to the BSP-IOD for purposes of registration of the investments as provided under Appendix 10.C.

6. The guidelines covering replacement/reissuance of lost BSRDs for private sector foreign/foreign currency loans/borrowings are provided under Appendix 5.

### XXX

Chapter Il ### INWARD INVESTMENTS x XX

Section 36. Registration with BSP

1. The following inward investments xxx

2. FX inwardly remitted to fund investments xxx

3. Fornew/additional"® investment/s of a non-resident investor, all applications for registration of inward investments (Annex W) under Section 36.1 shall be filed with the BSP within one (1) year from applicable reckoning date under Appendix 10.A.

4. The guidelines on registration/reporting of investments xxx

### XX X

Purchase of FX for payment of fees (excluding interest) prior to registration may be allowed, subject to documentary requirements under Appendix 13 of the FX Manual. For this purpose, the borrower shall submit to the BSP a request for authority to purchase FX supported by a duly accomplished Annex E.3 [together with a copy of the signed covering agreement(s)/document(s)].

5 i.e, foreign loans/borrowings outstanding and booked in the borrower's records as

of 22 December 2017 ### 1 XXX

Page 4 of 7

## Page 5

### PART SIX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Chapter I

### REPORTS AND POST VERIFICATION

Section 101. Reportorial Requirements. The following reports

are required to be submitted to the BSP by AABs, OBUs, and AAB forex ### corps where applicable:

Title of Report

Category

Submission Frequency/ Submission Procedure Deadline

A. Consolidated Report on Foreign Exchange Assets and Liabilities

### ForUBs/KBs:

FX Form 1, Main Report, Schedules 1 to 7, 9 to 12

Weekly, within five (5) banking

days after end of reference week

G. Registering/FX selling/Remitting Banks

Email to DES at der-bopirg@bsp.gov.ph

Email Schedules 10 & 11 to 10D at iod_sadc@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf format

Report on Foreign investments Registered with the BSP (Annex X), together with supporting documents under Appendix 1.4

For FX selling bank: Within

five (5) banking days from date of sale of FX

For remitting banks: Within five (5) banking days from date of actual

Email to IOD at iod_iog3@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf and .xls/.xlsx format, with supporting documents under Appendix 1.4

remittance a XXX XXX

A-2 Report on PSE-Listed Equity Within two (2) Email to lOD at Securities Issued by banking days iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf Non-Residents (Annex Y), with from date of and .xls/.xlsx format with supporting documents required actual supporting documents under Appendix 1.4 remittance required under Appendix 1.4

### XXX XXX XXX XXX

Section 102. Procedures for Reporting. The submission of

reports to the appropriate department of the BSP shall be effected by

Page 5o0f7

## Page 6

sending these through electronic means. The date when the report was sent electronically shall be considered as the date of filing.

### X XX

SECTION 2. The following Appendices/Annexes to the ### FX Manual have been revised/deleted:

Revised

1.

10.

11.

Appendix 1: Minimum Documentary Requirements for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Resident to Resident FX Transactions and Resident to Non-Resident Non-Trade Current Account Transactions

Appendix 1.3: Minimum Documentary Requirements for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Foreign Loans/Borrowings, Guarantees and Other Financing Schemes/Arrangements

Appendix 1.4: Minimum Documentary Requirements for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Inward and Outward Investments

Appendix 1.5: Minimum Documentary Requirements for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Import Transactions

Appendix 5: Guidelines Covering Replacement/Reissuance of Lost Bangko Sentral Registration Documents (BSRDs) for Private Sector Foreign/Foreign Currency Loans/Borrowings

Appendix 10.1: Certificate of Inward Remittance (CIR) of Foreign Exchange

Appendix 10.A: Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 36 of the FX Manual

Appendix 10.B: Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 37 of the FX Manual

Appendix 10.C: Supporting Documents for Registration of Inward Investments

Annex D.1: Application for Approval of Public Sector Foreign/Foreign Currency Loans/Borrowings

Annex D.2.A: Application for Approval of Publicly-

Guaranteed Private Sector Foreign/Foreign Currency Loans/ Borrowings

Page 6 of 7

## Page 7

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Annex D.2.B: Application for Registration of Private Sector Foreign/Foreign Currency Loans/Borrowings

Annex E.3: Loan/Borrowing Profile Annex I: Report on BOT/Other Similar Financing Schemes

Annex W: Application for Registration of Foreign Investments

Annex X: Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP

Annex Y: Report on Transactions on PSE-Listed Equity Securities Issued by Non-Residents

Deleted

1.

Appendix 20: Processing Fees on Foreign Exchange (FX) Transactions

SECTION 3. Repealing Clause. This Circular supersedes/ amends/modifies the provisions of existing regulations that are inconsistent herewith, except for the waiver of monetary penalties for delays incurred in the submission of reports to the BSP-IOD [item 11.2 of Circular No. 1080 dated 27 March 2020 and Circular Letter (CL) No. CL-2020-021 dated 7 April 2020] which shall remain effective until 30 June 2023 (unless extended by BSP).

SECTION 4. Effectivity. This Circular shall take effect 15 banking days after its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation in the Philippines.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD: a

### EDUARDO OBIER Officer-In-Charge

29 “Ah 9023

Page 7 of 7

## Page 8

### APPENDIX)

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements’ for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Resident to Resident FX Transactions and Resident to Non-Resident Non-Trade Current Account Transactions

I. For Resident to Resident FX Transactions under Part One, Chapter II of the FX Manual, requiring settlement in foreign currency

### XXX

Purpose Documents Required I

5. Foreign currency loans of public sector entities falling under Section 23.1.a

a. Regular amortizations/payments I a. BSP approval or letter-authority; and

b. Prepayment b. Xxx

c. Past due (i.e, those beyond I xxx original/amended due date duly approved by the BSP) for more than one (1) month

### XXX

ll. For Resident to Non-Resident Non-Trade Current Account? Transactions under Section 2 of the FX Manual

### XXX

Purpose 5. Living allowance/medical expenses of I a. xxx; or dependents of a Philippine resident I b. For children of the FX purchaser 21 years (i.e, child, spouse or parent) abroad old and above or spouse or parent who is unemployed or working on a part-time basis: (i) documents under item (a) above; and (ii) applicant's certification that the dependent is unemployed or working on a part-time basis abroad; or c. For children of the FX purchaser 21 years old and above or spouse or parent who is employed but requires funds for medical expenses: (i) documents under item (a) above; (ii) applicant’s certification that the dependent requires funds for medical expenses abroad despite being employed; and (iii) billing statement or certification issued by doctor/hospital abroad indicating cost estimate.

Documents Required®

Va) xxx b) xxx ¢c)For documents issued by the BSP, the following are the acceptable modes of submission by the ### FX purchaser:

BSP-issued documents Acceptable mode of submission For documents issued in original I i. Physical submission of original hardcopy; or

hardcopy before 27 March 2020 ii, Electronic submission of same in .pdf format. For documents issued in electronic I i. Electronic submission in .pdf format; or form starting 27 March 2020 ii. Physical submission of the printed copy of same.

### XXX 5 Xxx

## Page 9

### APPENDIX1

Page xxx of xxx

Documents Required?

18. Share in Head Office Expenses I a. Bangko Sentral Registration Document

(including reimbursements) (BSRD) for the assigned capital in the branch; ### XXX ### XXX.

## Page 10

### APPENDIX 1.3

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements' for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Foreign Loans/Borrowings, Guarantees and Other Financing Schemes/Arrangements

Il. For Servicing of Foreign Loans/Borrowings of the Public Sector?

Transaction Documents Required

1. BSP-approved public sector loans/borrowings under Sections 23.1 and 25.1 a. Regular amortization/payment I a. For the National Government: Specific BSP letter-approval

b. Xxx

a. For the National Government: Specific BSP letter-approval

b. Prepayment

c. Payment for loans that are past due (ie, beyond original/ amended due _ date duly approved by the BSP) for more than one (1) month

b. For other public sector entities (e.g., Government Owned and Controlled Corporations, Government Financial ### Institutions except government banks): BSP approval of the prepayment/payment of past due loans/borrowings for more than one (1) month.

Proof of reporting to the

(e.g., BSP acknowledgment letter); and

2. Short-term public sector loans/ BSP

borrowings under Section 23.2.b

### XXX

ll. For Servicing of Foreign Loans/Borrowings of the Private Sector

em *. a I Transaction Documents Required

1. BSP-approved and registered publicly-guaranteed private sector loans/borrowings under Sections 24.1 and 25.1; and BSP-registered private sector loans/borrowings that are not publicly-guaranteed under Section 24.2

a. Regular amortization/payment I a. Bangko Sentral Registration Document (BSRDF; and

b. xxx

### XXX a. BSRD*; and

Prepayment

c. Past due [i-e., beyond I b. For publicly-guaranteed private sector loans/ ### original/amended due date borrowings: duly approved/registered/ noted by the BSP (as applicable)] i. Prepayment: BSP approval for the

prepayment

### Past due for more than one (1) month:

a) xxx

b) xxx

c)For documents issued by the BSP, the following are the acceptable modes of submission by the ### FX purchaser:

BSP-issued documents For documents issued in original I i. Physical submission of original hardcopy; or hardcopy before 27 March 2020 ii, Electronic submission of same in .pdf format.

For documents issued in electronic I i. Electronic submission in .pdf format: or form starting 27 March 2020 ii. Physical submission of the printed copy of same.

### XXX 3 Xxx

Acceptable mode of submission

## Page 11

Transaction

not covered by Section 24.3.a5

a. Loans under Section 243.b - I a.

### APPENDIX 1.3

Page xxx of xxx

Documents Required

1. Payment by the private sector borrower: BSP letter acknowledging receipt of the borrower's notice of intent to pay past due accounts for more than one (1) month (indicating, among others, the following: name of creditor, BSP registration number for the loan, target date of repayment, and amount of principal to be repaid and related interest/ other fees/charges due in original currency and corresponding original due date based on the amortization schedule); or

iii, Payment by the public sector guarantor

### (in case of call on the guarantee):

BSP approval; or

For private sector loans/borrowings that are not publicly-guaranteed: BSP letter acknowledging receipt of the borrower's notice of intent to prepay or pay past due accounts for more than one (1) month ### (indicating, among others, the following: name of creditor, BSP registration number for the loan, target date of prepayment/ repayment, amount of principal to be prepaid/repaid and related interest/other fees/charges due in original currency and corresponding original due date based on the amortization schedule, and_ reason for prepayment).

2. Private sector foreign loans/borrowings (including those in the form of bonds/notes/ other debt instruments issued offshore) that are not publicly-guaranteed’* and

Proof of reporting to the BSP (eg. BSP acknowledgment letter) or BSRD®; and

Section 24.2 for payment of

to registration 3. Payments related to foreign

fees (excluding interest) prior I b.

loans of non-bank I financial quasi-banking functions that are not publicly-guaranteed

### XXX b. Loans under Section 24.3.c b. Xxx i. XXX ii, xxx XXX c. Loans compliant with I a.

Specific BSP letter-authority for the payment of fees; and ### XXX

institutions with

b. Prepayments

c. Past due (i.e, beyond original/ amended due date duly noted by the BSP) for more than one (1) month

### XXX ### 5S XXX ### 6 XXX

a. Regular amortization/payment I a.

b.

Proof of — reporting to the BSP

(e.g., BSP acknowledgment letter); and

### XXX BSP letter acknowledging receipt of the borrower's notice of intent to prepay or pay past due accounts for more than

one (1) month (indicating, among others, the following: name of creditor, BSP registration

number for the loan, target date of prepayment/repayment, amount of principal to be prepaid/repaid and related interest/ other fees/charges due in original currency, and reason for prepayment); and

## Page 12

### APPENDIX 1.3

Page xxx of xxx

Transaction Documents Required

ll. For Payments related to Guarantees and Similar Arrangements [including Risk Take Over (RTO) arrangements]

Transaction Documents Required

### 1. Payments under the guarantee 1. For guarantees under Section 3011:

a. BSP approval/registration of the guarantee or of the guaranteed foreign obligation (as applicable); and

b. Xxx ### 2. For guarantees under Section 30.2:

a. Proof of reporting to the BSP in the prescribed forms (e.g., BSP acknowledgment letter); and

b. Xxx

### 3. For guarantees under Section 30.3:

a. BSP letter acknowledging receipt of the notice of the call on the guarantee (as applicable);

b. Proof of compliance of the underlying transactions with applicable regulations on foreign loans/borrowings (e.g., BSP registration document}, and

### C. XXX

Guarantees or similar arrangements I a. BSP registration of the guarantee; and which may give rise to actual Ib. xxx

foreign obligations to non-residents

under Section 30.4

IV. Other Financing Schemes/Arrangements

Documents Required 1. Regular fees related to I a. BSRD*; and Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) and similar financing schemes with I b. xxx transfer provisions under Section 31.1

2. Peso-denominated bonds/notes I a. BSRD*. and similar debt instruments issued offshore by non-residents (whether to be settled in peso or foreign currency) under Section 31.2

## Page 13

I ————irpose—“(is—s—s—isz

### APPENDIX 1.4

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements’ for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Inward and Outward Investments

For Inward Investments by Non-residents

### A. Capital Repatriation for Investments:

1.

Documents Required

In instruments registered with BSP under Section 36

i. Assigned capital/operational

working fund/contributed capital

ii. Condominium

iii. Capitalized expenses incurred by foreign firms

iv. Equity securities issued onshore by residents that are not listed an onshore exchange

v. Debt securities issued onshore by private sector residents that are not listed at an onshore exchange and not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual

### BSRD*; ### XXX ### XXX

### BSRD?,

### XXX

Computation of the peso amount to be converted to FX using the prescribed

format (Annex N). __I

BSRD? or BSRDLA; and ### XXX

vi. Investment funds created onshore I a. BSRD? or BSRDLA; and by residents b. xxx

vii. Philippine Depositary Receipts I a. BSRD?; and (PDRs) that are not listed at an Ib. xxx onshore exchange

viii. Debt securities issued onshore by I a. BSRD*; and non-residents that are not listed at I b. xxx an onshore exchange

ix. Instruments issued by residents I a. BSRD?;and and non-residents which are not} b. xxx

covered by Sections 33, 34 and the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans and Guarantees), and not contrary to applicable laws, rules and regulations

1

2

a) All purchases of FX must be accompanied xx

b) For documents issued by the BSP/registering AABs, the following are the acceptable modes of

### submission by the FX purchaser:

For documents issued by the BSP I i and registering AABs in_ original hardcopy before 27 March 2020

For documents issued by the BSP in electronic form starting

27 March 2020

Acceptable mode of submission

. Physical submission of original hardcopy; or ii. Electronic submission of same in .pdf format.

Electronic submission in .pdf format; or Physical submission of the printed copy of same.

### For documents issued by the I For those issued in original hardcopy:

registering AABs in original hardcopy/electronic form starting 27 March 2020

i. Physical submission; or ii. Electronic submission of same in .pdf format.

### For those issued in electronic form:

Electronic submission in .pdf format; or

ii. Physical submission of the printed copy of same.

Including transmittal letter and attachment/s (as applicable) in case of BSRDs issued by the BSP

in electronic form starting 27 March 2020

## Page 14

x. Instruments under Section 36. (a-g) used as collateral involving transfer of legal/beneficial ownership of the collateral to the non-resident

investor

Documents Required

a.

b.

### APPENDIX 1.4

Page xxx of xxx

BSRD*; and ### XXX

In instruments registered with AABs under Section 37 i a.

i. Debt securities issued onshore by the National Government and other public sector entities

ii. Equity securities issued onshore by residents that are listed at an onshore exchange

iii, Debt securities issued onshore by private sector residents that are listed at an onshore exchange and not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)

issued/created onshore by residents

PDRs that are listed at an onshore

b.

a.

BSRD or BSRDLA from the registering bank; and ### XXX

BSRD or BSRDLA from the registering bank; and ### XXX

vi. Peso time deposits with an AAB I a. BSRD or BSRDLA from the registering with a maturity of at least 90 days bank; and b. xxx vii. Equity securities issued onshore or I a. BSRD or BSRDLA from the registering offshore by non-residents that are bank; and listed at an onshore exchange b. xxx viii. Debt securities issued onshore by I a. BSRD; and non-residents that are listed at an I b. xxx onshore exchange ix. Instruments under Section 37.2 I a. BSRD or BSRDLA; and (a-h) used as collateral involving I b. xxx transfer of legal/beneficial ownership of the collateral to the non-resident investor Prior to 15 March 1973 a. BSRD; or b. BSRDLA; or ### C. XXX. [B. Remittance of related earnings on I a. BSRD? or BSRDLA; BSP-registered investments of I b. Supporting document/s showing non-residents amount to be remitted (e.g., PSE Notice or Corporate Disclosure announcing the issuance of cash_ dividend, Secretary’s certificate on the Board Resolution covering dividend declaration or certification by the authorized officer/representative of the investee firm attesting to the share of the PDR holder in dividends/profits/ earnings; and c. Computation of the peso amount to be

converted to FX using the prescribed format (Annex N).

For investments registered under the old Central Bank Registration Documents, proof of

Central Bank Registration may be submitted in lieu of the BSRD.

## Page 15

### APPENDIX1.4

Page xxx of xxx

ill. For Outward Investments by Residents

Documents Required Certification by the resident investor xxx under Section 44 of the FX Manual; or BSP letter? acknowledging receipt of the investor's notice on FX requirements exceeding’ the USD6O million threshold per investor per year; and

### XXX.

Outward investments by Philippine I a. residents under Section 44 of the FX Manual

lll. For Other Transactions

Purpose Documents Required

Refund of taxes or erroneously withheld I a. BSRD?; and taxes related to BSP-registered I b. xxx investments

### ~ XXX

3 xxx

## Page 16

### APPENDIX15

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements’ for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Import Transactions

uired2

Mode of Payment Documents Re

### 2. XXX 3. Advance Payment

### XXX;

xxx; and

c. Letter of Undertaking (LOU) to the effect that if the importation is cancelled, the importer shall inwardly remit the FX refunded by the foreign supplier and sell same for pesos to the

FX selling/remitting AAB on same date.

oo

Ta) xxx b) xxx 2 a) xxx b) xxx For intercompany netting arrangements: (i) in lieu of the shipping documents, a statement of undertaking by the net importer: (1) to make available the supporting documents upon request by the BSP, xxx c) xxx d) xxx

## Page 17

### APPENDIX 5 Page 1 of 2

Guidelines Covering Replacement/Reissuance of Lost Bangko Sentral Registration Documents (BSRDs) for Private Sector Foreign/Foreign Currency Loans/Borrowings

The following guidelines shall apply to replacement/reissuance of lost BSRDs for private sector foreign/foreign currency loans/borrowings under ### Section 24 of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions:

A. Replacement of lost: (i) original hardcopy! BSRDs issued before 27 March 2020; and (ii) BSRDs issued in electronic form? starting 27 March 2020

Requests for replacement of lost BSRDs® shall be submitted to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas - International Operations Department (BSP-IOD) by the resident borrower (or his duly authorized representative), with the ### following:

a. Affidavit of Loss attesting to the following: (i) loss of the BSRD; (ii) the reason/circumstances surrounding the loss; (iii) affirmation that diligent search for the document/s declared lost has been done; {iv) the obligation remains intact and exists to date; (v) the outstanding balance of the obligation: (vi) the registration number/s and date/s; and (vii) the loan amount registered under each registration.

b. If the request and affidavit of loss are accomplished and signed by the duly authorized representative, proof of his authority from the resident borrower for the replacement of the lost BSRD.

B. Reissuance of lost BSRDs issued in electronic form starting 27 March 2020

Requests for reissuance of lost BSRDs issued in electronic form starting 27 March 2020 may also be filed with BSP-IOD: Provided, that there has been no change in the financial terms of the registered loan. The request shall be submitted to BSP-IOD by the resident borrower (or his duly ### authorized representative), with the following:

### a. Covering letter/email containing attestation on the following: (i) the reason/circumstances surrounding the loss; (ii) affirmation that diligent search for the document/s declared lost has been done; (iii) the obligation remains intact and exists to date; (iv) the outstanding balance of the obligation; (v) the registration number/s and date/s; and (vi) the loan amount registered under each registration.

1 With or without change in the financial terms of the registered loan

With change in the financial terms of the registered loan

3 Including unavailability of softcopy/printed copy of same and its attachment/s

(as applicable)

## Page 18

Page 2 of 2

b. If the covering letter/email and accompanying attestation is accomplished and signed by the duly authorized representative, proof of his authority from the resident borrower for the

reissuance of the BSRD.

## Page 19

### APPENDIX 10.1

### CERTIFICATE OF INWARD REMITTANCE (CIR) ### OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE NO. YYYY-NNNNNN-BBBBBBBBBBB

Name of Issuing Bank

### XXX

### Part B: Q Converted a portion/the full amount of FX inwardly remitted (copy of related CIR attached, ### if applicable), with the following particulars:

### XXX

IOD Form 03-002-04 * Version 5 * Updated <date>

## Page 20

### APPENDIX10.1

Guide/Instructions for Filling Out the Certificate of Inward Remittance (CIR)

### I. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS 1. Xxx

The CIR may be submitted to a registering bank or to the BSP, as applicable, as proof of funding for the issuance of a BSRD.

### 2. The respective parts of the CIR Form shall be accomplished as follows: ### XXX

a. A bank shall issue one (1) CIR covering all the transactions above

as applicable (e.g., receiving bank is the converting bank and the

bank which utilized the funds).

b. Conversely, the appropriate bank may issue one (1) CIR for each transaction above pertaining to the same inward remittance.

Cc. XXX ### XXX ll. SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS ### XXX ### 5. REMITTANCE/TELEGRAPHIC TRANSFER: x XX REMITTANCE CHARGES - refers to bank charges in FX, if any, of the receiving bank (excluding bank charges of converting bank as defined under item 13 hereof) deducted from the FX inwardly remitted. x XX 13. BANK CHARGES OF CONVERTING BANK - refers to the amount of total bank charges in PHP, if any, of the FX converting bank and taxes and other fees (excluding remittance charges as defined under item 5

hereof) deducted from the peso proceeds.

### XXX

## Page 21

### APPENDIX 10.A

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 36 of the FX Manual

The following guidelines shall apply to registration, repatriation/ remittance, and reporting of inward investments under Section 36 of the ### FX Manual:

I. Registration of investments with BSP' A. Application for registration ### XXX

2. For foreign investments in instruments under Section 36.1, applications for registration shall be filed within one (1) year, to be reckoned ### as follows:

### XXX

3. Applications for registration of investments filed with the BSP shall be free of charge.

B. Changes in BSP-registered investments xX XX

3. For changes in the name of investor/investee not involving corporate restructuring and transfer of ownership, the non-resident investor (or his duly authorized representative) shall submit to the BSP-IOD xxx.

4. Anew BSRD shall be issued for requests to consolidate or replace old BSRDs of the non-resident investor. The original hardcopy of BSRD/s (for those issued before 27 March 2020) or electronic or printed copy of BSRD/s (for those issued starting 27 March 2020) issued in favor of the non-resident investor shall be submitted to the BSP-IOD for cancellation/replacement, as applicable.

C. Replacement/Reissuance of Lost BSRDs

l. Replacement of lost: (i) original hardcopy BSRDs? issued before 27 March 2020; and (ii) BSRDs issued in electronic form’ starting 27 March 2020

Applications (Annex W) for replacement of lost BSRDs* shall be submitted to the BSP-IOD by the non-resident investor (or his duly ### authorized representative), with the following:

### XXX

With or without change in any information/details of the registered investment

With change in any information/details of the registered investment

Applicable to: (i) BSRDs issued in original hardcopy before 27 March 2020 with no available softcopy of same (including attachment/s); and (ii) BSRDs issued in electronic

### PWN

## Page 22

### APPENDIX 10.A

Page xxx of xxx

a. Affidavit of Loss attesting to the following: (i) loss of the BSRD*; xxx (v) the outstanding balance of the investment; (vi) the registration number/s and date/s; xxx

b. Xxx.

Il. Reissuance of lost BSRDs issued in electronic form starting 27 March 2020

Requests for reissuance of lost BSRDs issued in electronic form starting 27 March 2020 may also be filed with BSP-IOD: Provided, that there has been no change in any information/details of the registered investment. The request shall be submitted to the BSP-IOD by the non-resident investor ### (or his duly authorized representative), with the following:

### a. Covering letter/email containing attestation on the following: (i) the reason/circumstances surrounding the loss of the BSRD; (ii) affirmation that diligent search for the document/s declared lost has been done; (iii) the investment remains intact and exists to date; (iv) the outstanding balance of the investment; (v) the registration number/s and date/s; and (vi) the number of shares registered under each registration and percentage of the foreign investment to the total shares subscribed and paid up, as applicable.

b. If the covering letter/email and accompanying attestation is accomplished and signed by the duly authorized representative, proof of his authority from the non-resident investor for the reissuance of the BSRD.

D. Cancellation of BSRDs

For BSP-registered inward investments that have been fully divested by the non-resident investor, the FX selling bank shall surrender the original BSRD§& to the BSP-IOD for cancellation within five (5) banking days from date of FX sale for the divestment proceeds. Reporting shall be done in accordance with item III hereof.

ll. Repatriation of capital/remittance of related earnings

AABs/AAB forex corps may sell FX xxx upon presentation of the BSRD and supporting documents listed under Appendix 1.4 of the FX Manual.

form starting 27 March 2020 with no available softcopy and printed copy of same (including attachment/s)

including unavailability of softcopy/printed copy of same and its attachment/s (as applicable)

6 Applicable only to BSRDs issued in original hardcopy before 27 March 2020

## Page 23

### APPENDIX 10.A

Page xxx of xxx

ll. Reporting

1. If the FX selling AAB is also the remitting AAB, such bank shall accomplish and submit to the BSP-IOD xxx the original BSRD® for inward investments that have been fully divested by the non-resident investor.

2. In case the FX selling AAB is different from the remitting AAB, the FX selling bank shall submit to BSP-IOD xxx the original BSRD® for inward investments that have been fully divested by the non-resident investor. xxx

3. In case the repatriation of capital/remittance of earnings from BSP-registered investments is funded by the investee’s own FX resources, the remitting bank shall likewise report the transaction under the Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP (Annex X) within five (5) banking days from date of remittance to the account (whether onshore or offshore) of the non-resident investor/intended beneficiary.

### XXX

## Page 24

### APPENDIX 10.B

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 37 of the FX Manual

The following guidelines shall apply to registration, repatriation/ remittance, and reporting of inward investments under Section 37 of the ### FX Manual:

I. Registration of investments with registering AABs' A. Applications for registration ### XXX

2. A single BSRD shall be issued by a registering AAB to a non-resident investor for all his investments in instruments under Section 37.2 of the FX Manual, except for item g thereof. The BSRD to be issued by the registering AABs shall be signed by an authorized officer as prescribed by the BSP-IOD. A separate BSRD shall be issued to a non-resident investor exclusively for all ### investments in the following:

### XXX

3. For initial registration”, the registering AABs shall submit to BSP-IOD at iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph, a copy of the BSRD issued in the name of the non-resident investor and Authority to Disclose Information (Appendix 10.4) xxx.

The BSRD and other supporting documents listed under Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual shall remain in the custody of the registering AABs but shall be made available upon request by the BSP for verification purposes.

### XXX ### 6. For instruments used as collateral xxx, the registering AAB shall: (a) annotate the BSRD/ledger of the original non-resident investor/transferor/ borrower to reflect such transfer; and/or (b) xxx ### XXX B. Cancellation of BSRDs For BSP-registered inward investments that have been fully divested by the non-resident investor, the designated registering AABs shall surrender the original BSRD* to the BSP-IOD for cancellation within five (5) banking

days from date of full remittance of divestment proceeds.

### XXX

1 Xxx ### XXX 3 Applicable only to BSRDs issued in original hardcopy

## Page 25

### APPENDIX 10.B

Page xxx of xxx

ill. Reporting

1. All transactions on registered investments shall be reported by the registering/remitting AABs to BSP-IOD xxx, together with the CIR of FX and BSRDLA (as applicable). xxx

### XXX

## Page 26

### APPENDIX 10.C

Page xxx of xxx

Supporting Documents’ for Registration of Inward Investments Registration of inward investments (either with the BSP or registering AABs) shall be supported by proof of funding and the actual

### investment made by the non-resident investor as indicated below:

Il. Proof of funding

Form of Funding I Proof of Funding

A.__Incash ro Mxx 2. Constructive remittance of FX I a. For debit-credit arrangement the onshore funding to a resident’s deposit bank made with an offshore counterparty account bank which resulted in the eventual crediting of peso to the account of the resident investee firm: Bank certification issued by the onshore bank or equivalent ### document indicating the following:

### XXX

(i) FX deal amount/s;

(ii) exchange rate/s used;

(iii) date/s of credit to corresponding accounts and account numbers;

(iv) FX amount deposited to the offshore account of the onshore’ bank corresponding to the FX deal made (whether in the same _ offshore counterparty bank or in another offshore bank); and

(v) details of peso fund transfers to

another onshore bank (as applicable);

or

For remittance made to the offshore account of the resident investee firm/ intended beneficiary. Bank statement/s issued by the offshore receiving/depository bank showing the FX amount and date of its credit to the offshore account of the resident investee firm/intended beneficiary, or equivalent document 3. FX payments made offshore I Proof of funding of initial onshore investment

between non-residents for I and subsequent FX payment made offshore for

transfer of onshore investments transfer of said investment to another non-resident -

Va) xxx b) For documents issued by the BSP/registering AABs, the following are the acceptable modes of

### submission by the FX purchaser:

Acceptable mode of submission i. Physical submission of original hardcopy; or ii. Electronic submission of same in .pdf format.

BSP-issued documents

For documents issued by the BSP and registering AABs in original hardcopy before 27 March 2020

For documents issued by the BSP in electronic form starting 27 March 2020 For documents issued by the registering AABs in original hardcopy/electronic form _ starting 27 March 2020

i. Electronic submission in .pdf format; or ii. Physical submission of the printed copy of same.

### For those issued in original hardcopy: i. Physical submission; or ii. Electronic submission of same in .pdf format.

### For those issued in electronic form:

i. Electronic submission in .pdf format; or

ii. Physical submission of the printed copy of same.

## Page 27

### APPENDIX 10.C

Page xxx of xxx

Form of Funding Proof of Funding

### 4. XXX

5. Reinvestment of peso divestment/ sales proceeds or related earnings of investment

a. BSRD* (if transferred investment was registered); or document xxx; and

Deed of Transfer/Deed of Assignment/ Sale/covering agreement, or equivalent document; or certification executed by the authorized officer/representative of the investee firm attesting to the transfer/ amount paid for the investment and that the payment was made offshore. ### XXX

Proof of funding for the previous investment and proof of divestment/sale or earnings

(as applicable) -

a. For divestment/sales proceeds

a. BSRD* or BSRDLA (if previous investment was registered); or document xxx; and b. Xxx

b. For earnings

a. BSRD* or BSRDLA (if previous investment was registered); or document xxx; and

6. Conversion of liability (e.g., foreign loan/bonds/notes/obligation) investment (e.g., equity)

7. Exercise of conversion rights to underlying shares [eg., under

Philippine Depository Receipts (PDRs)]

3. Stock and/or property dividends accruing from onshore investments

b. Xxx

a. BSRD? (if liability was registered); or to document xxx; and

b. Deed of Assignment of liability and

conversion to investment/covering agreement or equivalent document on the conversion, or equivalent document; or certification executed by the authorized officer/representative of the investee firm attesting to the conversion of debt to investment.

BSRD* [if initial investment (e.g., PDR) was registered]; or document xxx; and

### XXX

a. XXX b. Xxx a. XXX b. Xxx Cc. XXX

Proof of funding for existing investment and proof of declaration -

a. BSRD® (if base/mother shares were registered); or document xxx; and b. xxx ### 4. Shares (e.g., share swap) Onshore shares: a. BSRD? or BSRDLA (if investment was previously registered); or document Xxx; and b. xxx ### Offshore shares: ### XXX C. Others not falling under Items Aand 8B I a. BSRD? (if applicable); and (e.g., stock splits/reverse stock splits, I b. xxx uplifted shares, investments made Ic. xxx prior to 15 March 1973) d. xxx ### @. XXX f. Xxx g. XXX 2 (i) In original hardcopy for documents issued by the BSP before 27 March 2020; or (ii) electronic or

printed copy [including transmittal letter and attachment/s (as applicable)] in case of BSRDs issued by the BSP in electronic form starting 27 March 2020

w

electronic form starting 27 March 2020

Including transmittal letter and attachment/s (as applicable) in case of BSRDs issued by the BSP in

## Page 28

ll. Proof of investment

### APPENDIX 10.C

Page xxx of xxx

pe of Investment Proof of Investment by Non-resident Investor

### A.

Instruments for registration with the BSP under Section 36

1.

Assigned capital/operational I a. working fund/contributed capital (Section 33.1.a)

b. c. 2. XXX a. b. ¢. ### 3. XXX XXX 4. Equity securities issued onshore I a.

by residents that are not listed at an onshore exchange [Section 33.3.a.(i)]

### For investee firms that are corporations: Certificate of Registration with the Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) - Articles of Incorporation and amendments thereto (as applicable), latest General Information Sheet (GIS) duly received by SEC (as applicable) and other regulatory/board clearances/approvals (as applicable);

Xxx; and

For investment in firms under dissolution or already dissolved: (i) SEC Certificate of Dissolution of the investee firm, or SEC Certificate of Filing of Amended Articles of Incorporation (in case of shortening of corporate term), as applicable; (ii) Statement of Net Assets in Liquidation signed by the Liquidation Trustee of the investee firm, or equivalent document/s; and (iii) certification signed by the Liquidation Trustee of the investee firm, or equivalent document/s, attesting, among others, to the amount due to the non-resident investor and that no FX has been purchased in relation to such assets and/or amount.

### XXX; OF

XXX; Or

### XXX

### For investee firms that are corporations: Certificate of Registration with the Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) - Articles of Incorporation and amendments thereto (as applicable), latest General Information Sheet (GIS) duly received by SEC (as applicable) and other regulatory/board clearances/approvals (as applicable);

Xxx; and

For investment in firms under dissolution or already dissolved: (i) SEC Certificate of Dissolution of the _ investee _ firm, or SEC Certificate of Filing of Amended Articles of Incorporation (in case of shortening of corporate term), as applicable; (ii) Statement of Net Assets in Liquidation signed by the Liquidation Trustee of the investee firm, or equivalent document/s; and (iii) certification signed by the Liquidation Trustee of the investee firm. or equivalent document/s, attesting, among others, to the amount due to the non-resident investor and that no FX has been purchased in relation to such assets and/or amount.

## Page 29

### ANNEX D.1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

International Operations Department

### APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PUBLIC SECTOR FOREIGN/FOREIGN CURRENCY LOANS/BORROWINGS* @ Approval-in-Principle = Final Approval

Borrower

Creditor

Guarantor

Loan Amount (in original currency)

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR ALL APPLICATIONS (Original or certified true copies, as applicable)

(check documents submitted) For Approval-in-Principle” GOCC/GFI LGU 1. Loan/Borrowing Profile (Annex E.3) O

### 2. For project loans: (a) Investment Coordination Committee (ICC) approval (including project briefer)

(b) National Economic and Development Authority Board confirmation of ICC approval of the project (if required) ### 3. For program loans:

Development Budget Coordination Committee approval (including policy matrix) 4. Department of Finance approval-in-principle For Final Approval 1. Loan/Borrowing Profile (Annex E.3) indicating final terms of the loan 2. Signed unnotarized loan/credit/guarantee and related agreements 3. DOF endorsement for unguaranteed loans pursuant to MB Resolution No. 141 dated 5 February 2004 4 5.

. Agreed minutes/results of negotiations, as applicable (e.g., for bilateral loans, loans from the Asian Development Bank)

. Clearance from the Inter-agency Committee for Review of Foreign Loan Documents (as applicable)

### I hereby certify and undertake that: ### (a) The transaction covered by this application complies/will comply with the following:

(i) I The provisions of all applicable laws, rules and regulations (including charters of GOCCs) governing the borrowing and its purpose; (ii) All necessary/required approvals/clearances/endorsements/permits/authorization from other government agencies and oversight bodies;

(iii) The conditions imposed on the approval of the project (if any) by government agencies and/or oversight bodies; and

(iv) The provisions of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 8182 [An Act excluding Official Development Assistance (ODA) from the Foreign Debt Limit in Order to Facilitate the Absorption and Optimize the Utilization of ODA Resources, amending for the purpose Paragraph 1, Section 2 of R.A. No. 4860, as amended], as applicable;

(b) (i) For changes that may not have monetary/financial implications [e.g., change in creditor; change in creditor's name (e.g., due to merger, corporate restructuring)] or change in availability/closing date, a notice to BSP-IOD shall be sent within one (1) month from availability of information.

(ii) For changes in borrower/guarantor, purpose, financial terms and conditions of loans/borrowings, BSP approval shall be obtained prior to signing of the covering agreement/effectivity of change; (c) Pertinent documents/information shall be made available upon request by the BSP for verification:

(d) Changes to any submitted foreign borrowings plan covering other loans/borrowings shall be communicated to the BSP-IOD within two (2) weeks upon availability of information for monitoring purposes;

(e) The information disclosed in this Application Form and its attachments are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, complete, true and correct, and this declaration is made in good faith. Said information may be used by the BSP for its intended purpose, subject to pertinent laws, rules and regulations;

(f) Any concealment/misrepresentation made under this Application Form and its attachments, and failure to comply with commitments indicated herein may cause the cancellation/revocation of the approval/registration document/letter authority that may be issued by the BSP; and/or denial of future applications for BSP action;

(g) This Application Form and the supporting documents submitted via official channel (whether in hardcopy or via electronic/digital means) are genuine, credible and not tampered;

(h) I have been duly authorized by the borrower's management/Board of Directors/appropriate approving authority to file this application and present the information contained herein; and

(i) I have read and understood all the instructions contained herein.

Signature‘ over printed name of authorized officer/official®

Designation

Email address

### Date:

* Application Form and any subsequent submission of supporting documents should be accompanied by a covering letter/email indicating, among others, documents submitted. All fields should be properly filled out; put "N/A" for fields that are not applicable. Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Jan-2021). ° For Government banks/financial institutions, please accomplish attached Status of Relending Lines form. “ Wet/electronic/digital signature * Refers to an officer with a rank equivalent to at least Head of the agency/President/Chief Executive Officer/Chief Operating Officer/Chief Finance Officer/Chief Treasury Officer; otherwise, he/she must be duly authorized by the Board of Directors or any of the foregoing/appropriate approving authority or its equivalent

1OD Form 02-002-01* Version 7 * Updated <date> Pagel of2

## Page 30

### ANNEX D.1

(Amounts in Millions) <Name of Borrower>

Closing Date Committed Undrawn Pit oo Man: , Drawn Amount ubject to

Creditor/Project/ i Original anos : (In Original — - — es Payment of ### f (In Original Utilization (In Original Fee : Purpose ; Currency Commitment

Currency) Currency! (c) = (b) / (a) Currency) (Percent p.a.) asian Revised = - evise (d) = (a) - (b) (In USS)

### GRAND TOTAL

Summary by Currency OTHERS Total (pls specify) (in US$)

Amount Committed

Amount Drawn

Amount Relent

Undrawn Amount for Relending

Amount Subject to Payment of Commitment Fees

### q Exchange rates used (as of ):

(/f more space is needed, use a separate sheet of paper following the same format)

l1OD Form 02-002-01* Version 7 * Updated <date> Page 2 of 2

## Page 31

### ANNEX D.2.A

### Y BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

International Operations Department

### APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF ### PUBLICLY-GUARANTEED PRIVATE SECTOR FOREIGN/FOREIGN CURRENCY LOANS/BORROWINGS*

Borrower

Creditor/s

Guarantor/s

Loan Amount (in original currency)

### SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS REQUIRED

(- Loan/Borrowing Profile (Annex E.3) [ Document” evidencing foreign/foreign currency loan/borrowing to be refinanced (as applicable)

### I hereby certify and undertake that:

(a) The transaction covered by this application complies/will comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including required approvals/clearances/endorsements/permits/authorization from the concerned government agencies/oversight bodies;

(b) (i) For changes that may not have monetary/financial implications [e.g., change in creditor; change in creditor's name (e.g., due to merger, corporate restructuring)] or change in availability/closing date, a notice to BSP-IOD shall be sent within one (1) month from availability of information;

(ii) For changes in borrower/guarantor, purpose, financial terms and conditions of loans/ borrowings, BSP approval shall be obtained prior to signing of the covering agreement/effectivity of change;

(c) Pertinent documents/information shall be made available upon request by the BSP for verification;

(d) Changes to any submitted foreign borrowings plan covering loans/borrowings shall be communicated to the BSP- IOD within two (2) weeks upon availability of information for monitoring purposes;

(e) The information disclosed in this Application Form and its attachments are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, complete, true and correct, and this declaration is made in good faith. Said information may be used by the BSP for its intended purpose, subject to pertinent laws, rules and regulations;

(f) Any concealment/misrepresentation made under this Application Form and its attachments, and failure to comply with commitments indicated herein may cause the cancellation/revocation of the approval/registration document/letter authority that may be issued by the BSP and/or denial of future applications for BSP action;

(g) This Application Form and supporting documents submitted via official channel (whether in hardcopy or via electronic/digital means) are genuine, credible and not tampered;

(h) I have been duly authorized by the borrower's management/Board of Directors/appropriate approving authority to file this application and present the information contained herein; and

(i) I have read and understood all the instructions contained herein.

Signature‘ over printed name of authorized officer?

Designation

Email address

### Date :

* Application Form and any subsequent submission of supporting documents should be accompanied by a covering letter/email indicating, among others, documents submitted. All fields should be properly filled out; indicate N/A for fields that are not applicable. Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Jan-2021).

### » (I) For those requiring registration pursuant to Sections 24.1 and 24.2 of the FX Manual:

BSRD (if foreign loan/borrowing to be refinanced was registered); or Loan/Borrowing Profile (Annex E.3) and copy of signed covering agreement(s)/documents (if foreign loan/borrowing to be refinanced was not registered)

### (ii) For those requiring mere reporting pursuant to Section 24.3 of the FX Manual:

Foreign/foreign currency loan/borrowing to be refinanced shall have been duly reported by the resident borrower and/or reporting/creditor bank (as applicable) to the BSP to facilitate registration of the refinancing foreign loan/borrowing

© Wet/electronic/digital signature

* Refers to an officer with a rank equivalent to at least Head of the agency/President/Chief Executive Officer/Chief Operating Officer/Chief Finance Officer/Chief Treasury Officer; otherwise, he/she must be duly authorized by the Board of Directors or any of the foregoing/appropriate approving authority or its equivalent

IOD Form 02-001-01* Version 9* Updated <date>

## Page 32

### ANNEX D.2.B

### ‘Y) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

International Operations Department

### APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF ### PRIVATE SECTOR FOREIGN/FOREIGN CURRENCY LOANS/BORROWINGS*

@ with Public Sector Guarantee H Without Public Sector Guarantee

Borrower

Creditor/s

Guarantor/s

Loan Amount (in original currency) Debt Account No.

### SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS REQUIRED [— Loan/Borrowing Profile (Annex E.3) indicating {— Signed covering agreements and related documents

final loan terms and changes, if any, from the (e.g., guarantee agreement, offering underwriting

previous submission/s to the BSP agreement, derivatives contract) and/or signed agreements covering amendments in terms

C Document” evidencing foreign/foreign currency loan/borrowing to be refinanced (as applicable)

### I hereby certify and undertake that:

(a) The transaction covered by this application complies/will comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including required approvals/clearances/endorsements/permits/authorization from the appropriate government agencies and oversight bodies;

### (b) For publicly-guaranteed private sector loans: (i) For changes that may not have monetary/financial implications [e.g., change in creditor; change in creditor's name (e.g., due to merger, corporate restructuring)] or change in availability/closing date, a notice to BSP-IOD shall be sent within one (1) month from availability of information; (ii) For changes in borrower/guarantor, purpose, financial terms and conditions of loans/borrowings, BSP approval shall be obtained prior to signing of the covering agreement/effectivity of change;

### For purely private sector loans:

(i) The BSP shall be notified in writing, within one (1) month upon availability of information/signing of the amended or supplementary agreement (as the case may be), of any changes/additions to the loan's financial terms and conditions as well as any change in borrower/issuer/creditor/guarantor and other information or representations that may affect the loan; and

(ii) The supporting documents submitted electronically (if any) are genuine, credible and not tampered and that, hardcopies of the original/photocopy (as the case may be) of supporting documents shall be made available upon request by BSP for verification;

(c) Pertinent documents/information shall be made available upon request by the BSP for verification;

(d) Changes to any submitted foreign borrowings plan covering other loans/borrowings shall be communicated to the BSP-IOD within two (2) weeks upon availability of information for monitoring purposes;

(e) The information disclosed in this Application Form and its attachments are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, complete, true and correct, and this declaration is made in good faith. Said information may be used by the BSP for its intended purpose, subject to pertinent laws, rules and regulations;

(f) Any concealment/misrepresentation made under this Application Form and its attachments, and failure to comply with commitments indicated herein may cause the cancellation/revocation of the approval/registration document/letter authority that may be issued by the BSP and/or denial of future applications for BSP action;

(g) This Application Form and supporting documents submitted via official channel (whether in hardcopy or via electronic/digital means) are genuine, credible and not tampered;

(h) I have been duly authorized by the borrower's management/Board of Directors/appropriate approving authority to file this application and present the information contained herein; and

(i) [have read and understood all the instructions contained herein.

Signature® over printed name of authorized officer®

Designation

Email address

Date

* Application form and any subsequent submission of supporting documents should be accompanied by a covering letter/email indicating, among others, documents submitted. All fields should be properly filled out; indicate N/A for fields that are not applicable. Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Jan-2021).

### » (i) For those requiring registration pursuant to Sections 24.1 and 24.2 of the FX Manual: BSRD (if foreign loan/borrowing to be refinanced was registered ); or Loan/Borrowing Profile (Annex E.3) and copy of signed covering agreement(s)/documents (if foreign loan/borrowing to be refinanced was not registered)

### (ii) For those requiring mere reporting pursuant to Section 24.3 of the FX Manual: Foreign/foreign currency loan/borrowing to be refinanced shall have been duly reported by the resident borrower and/or reporting/creditor bank (as applicable) to the BSP to facilitate registration of the refinancing foreign loan/borrowing

© Wet/electronic/digital signature

¢ Refers to an officer with a rank equivalent to at least Head of the agency/President/Chief Executive Officer/Chief Operating Officer/Chief Finance Officer/Chief Treasury

Officer; otherwise, he/she must be duly authorized by the Board of Directors or any of the foregoing/appropriate approving authority or its equivalent.

IOD Form 03-001-04 * Version 2 * Updated <date> Page 1 of 2

## Page 33

### ANNEX D.2.B

### SUMMARY OF LOAN UTILIZATION

Date Category/Description® Month and Year Paid?

In Original Currency I In USD equivalent‘

### SUB-TOTAL®

o 6. 3 9

### SUB-TOTAL® ### TOTAL

* E.g., Capital expenditures, civil works, purchase of raw materials, refinancing of existing obligations (indicate if PHP or FX), for relending, payment for services » In the case of relending, indicate month and year of disbursement

© Converted at BSP reference rate as of end-month indicated

4 Those payable to Philippine residents

° Indicate sub-total and total per currency

f Those payable to non-residents

IOD Form 03-001-04 * Version 2* Updated <date> Page 2 of 2

## Page 34

### ANNEX E.3

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

International Operations Department

### LOAN/BORROWING PROFILE* @ Application for Approval @ Application for Registration HiNotice to the BSP” @ Notification®

Philippine Standard Industrial Classification (PSIC) Code" Nature of Business Company Postal Address ### Zip Code: Government Registration (for private sector) Issuing agency/ies (e.g., SEC, DTI, BOI, PEZA) Registration Number/s and Date/s Company Tax Identification Number (TIN) Website Name of Authorized Representative/s Designation/s Company Telephone Number/s Company Fax Number/s Company Email Address/es

Current Principal Officers/Board of Directors and Ownership Structure (attach as separate sheet)

Outstanding Foreign/Foreign Currency Loans/Borrowings (In USD) as of date of this application/notice/notification (if any) other ### than the loan/borrowing covered by this application/notice/notification:

### TOTAL : ### (a) Short-term ; (b) Medium- and Long-term : ### Offshore sources ; Offshore sources : ### Onshore sources ; Onshore sources :

### Exchange rate assumption : ### B. CREDITOR/S

Name (Lead creditor in case of syndicated loans) Creditor Type Nature of Business Postal Address Website Head Office Address, if creditor is branch/subsidiary Name of Authorized Representative/s Designation/s Company Telephone Number/s Company Fax Number/s Company Email Address/es Relationship to Borrower/Issuer (if any)

Cc. GUARANTOR/S L] Resident® [] Non-resident® Name Nature of Business Postal Address Website Percentage of Loan/Borrowing Guaranteed

### D. OTHER INFORMATION

Date of submission of Foreign Borrowings Plan Legal basis for borrowings of the puple sector [Cite spacific law/s and section(s)/provision(s) of law] a. Foreign Borrowing

o_O ### b. Borrower's foreign borrowing ceiling, if any, and status as of date of application :

(If more space is needed, use a separate sheet of paper following the same format)

* All fields should be properly filled out; indicate N/A for fields that are not applicable. Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Jan-2021).

® The Notice/Notification to the BSP shall be accompanied by a covering letter/email.

© Notification for: (i) change/s in the loan's financial terms and conditions; or (ii) cancellation (whether partial or in full) of the loan/commitment/agreement

4 Use latest version available at the Philippine Statistics Authority's website.

° As defined in the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual), as amended

‘ Refer to ceilings as may be provided under relevant laws, rules and regulations

IOD Form 03-001-03* Version 3 * Updated <date> Page 1 of 5

## Page 35

### ANNEX E.3

1. Purpose or Project/ Program Name

2. Project Site

3. Brief Description

4. Implementing Agency/ies and/or End-User/s (as applicable) Postal Address ; Name of Authorized Representative/s Designation/s Company Telephone Number/s Company Fax Number/s Company Email Address/es

5. Project Implementation Period (Specify/describe phases, if any)

6. Economic and financial benefits of the project/purpose and justification for financing scheme chosen:

7. Project Cost (In Original Currency)

Description Local Costs® Foreign Costs”

Exchange Rate Assumptions

8. Sources of Funds in Original Currency (per investor/creditor) Investor/Creditor Percent to Total Equity Local Foreign Sub-total Borrowings Peso Borrowings Foreign Borrowings Onshore borrowings in foreign currency Sub-total

Internally Generated Funds Sub-total

### TOTAL

Exchange Rate Assumptions

(lf more space is needed, use a separate sheet of paper following the same format)

Payable to residents e Payable to non-residents

1OD Form 03-001-03* Version 3 * Updated <date> Page 2 of 5

## Page 36

Note: Please indicate relevant Sactionsipaces of the Loan Document/s where the financial terms are found

Debt Account Number (DAN)*

Currency of Commitment (Original Currency)

Original Amount Committed (In Original Currency)

Signing Date/s of the Loan/Borrowing Document/s

Currency of Drawdown/Availment

Currency of Repayment

Closing Date (Last Date for Drawdown) or Actual/Target Issue Date (for bonds/notes)

ISIN Code (as applicable)

Participants in Syndicated Loans/Borrowings, if any

Name of Creditor

### Additional information (as applicable) for: A. Public Sector: Final Approval (in Original Currency) Cancelled Commitment Amount, if any

Country of Residence In Percent

Share

B. Private Sector: Applications for registration (in Original currency

Cancelled Commitment Amount, if any Outstanding Balance (as of <DD-MMM-YYYY>)

(If more space is needed, use a separate sheet of paper following the same format)

B, PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT (Details in page 4)

Maturity/Tenor (No. of years and months Grace Period (No. of years and months) First Principal Payment Date

Final Principal Payment Date Frequency of Payment

Prepayment

### C. INTEREST AND FEES

Interest/Coupon Rate (per annum) [Fixed (In %)

{) Allowed

Base Rate” Spread (In %)

Day count convention Year

Frequency of Payment

Interest Resetting/Repricing Terms®

### Penalty/Default Rate (In % per annum) :

Fees/Costs Rate (In %)/ Amount (In original currency)

Type of Fee/Cost®

### D. RELATED TRANSACTIONS (_ Derivatives*/Hedging Transactions

Type’

Notional Amount

Tenor

Frequency

Name/s of Counterparty/ies Address

[_] Others

### E. OTHER INFORMATION Security/Collateral Terms

Others?

L) Not Allowed

[] Floating

Applicable Base Rate (In % as of date of application)

### Month:

Frequency of Payment First Payment Date

### Settlement date/s:

* For loans/borrowings already approved/registered by/reported to the BSP prior to application

° Indicate type of rate

< Indicate resetting/repricing terms, if any (e.g., frequency or dates of scheduled change/s in interest rate, step-up rate)

id

specify) © Indicate availments/amendments/cancellation.

‘ Use the following codes: FW - deliverable FX forwards, SW - FX swaps, NDF - non-deliverable FX forwards, NDS - non-deliverable FX swaps, CCS - cross-currency swaps, IRS - interest rate swaps,

OTH - others (please specify)

° E.g., with roll-over feature, with option to convert to equity, under a revolving facility. governing law

(/f more space is needed, use a separate sheet of paper following the same format)

lOD Form 03-001-03* Version 3 * Updated <date>

Amount (in Orig. Currency)

Last Payment

### ANNEX E.3

Indicate type of fees/costs: (a) COM: commitment fee; (b) AGN: agency fee; (c) GRT: guarantee fee; (d) FRE: front-end fee; (e) MGT: management fee: (f) UND: underwriting fee; or (g) OTH: others (please

Page 3 of 5

## Page 37

### ANNEX E.3

PART IV. LOAN DRAWDOWNS/BOND OR NOTE iSSUANCE AND Drawdowns/Issuance Payments”

Amount in Original Currency . Currency of Amount Outstanding Balance

Drawdowns/ (In Original wanes a Type of Sopeeot (In Original Currency) Payment Fees/Costs Issuance Currency ) Interest/Coupon Fees/Costs

* All fields should be properly filled out; indicate N/A for fields that are not applicable. Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Jan-2021).

Use separate lines per transaction. Each transaction [i.e., drawdown, payment of: (i) principal; (ii) interest; (iii) fees/costs] shall have its corresponding transaction date, source of payment and transaction due date, as applicable. 5 Including loan prepayments or bonds/notes redemptions

“ Indicate actual/projected transaction date for drawdowns and payments as of submission of this Annex 4 Use the following codes: (a) IR-FX: inward remittance of FX; (b) IR-SP: inward remittance of FX sold for PHP spot; (c) IR-SW: inward remittance of FX swapped for PHP; (d) OFS: used offshore (e.g., direct payment to foreign suppliers/beneficiaries); (e) INKIND: in kind (e.g., supplier's credit); (f) Cl: capitalized interest, fees and costs; or (g) OTH: others (please specify)

* Indicate source of payments to creditor: (a) AAB: authorized agent banks (not covered by derivatives); (b) AAB-FC: AAB forex corps; (c) NBK: non-banks; (d) FCDU ADV: advance purchase of FX from AABs/AAB forex corps; (e) AAB DR: authorized agent banks (under derivatives contract); (f) FCDU: Foreign Currency Deposit Unit - own funds [not purchased from AABs/AAB forex corps (e.g., FX earnings)]; (g) OFS A/C: offshore account; (h) PHP ONS: Onshore pesos for PHP-denominated loans; (i) Cl: capitalized interest, fees and costs; (j) EQU: converted to equity: (k) WRO: written-off; or (I) OTH: Others (please specify)

(lf more space is needed, use a separate sheet of paper following the same format)

1OD Form 03-001-03* Version 3 * Updated <date> Page 4of5

## Page 38

### ANNEX E.3

### DECLARATION

### I hereby certify and undertake that:

(a) The transaction covered by this Annex and its attachments (if any) complies/will comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including required approvals/clearances/endorsements/ permits/authorization from the concerned government agencies/oversight bodies;

(b) (i) For changes that may not have monetary/financial implications [e.g., change in creditor; change in creditor's name (e.g., due to merger, corporate restructuring, among others)] or change in availability/closing date, a notice to BSP-IOD shall be sent within one (1) month from availability of information; and

(ii) For changes in borrower/guarantor, purpose, financial terms and conditions of loans/ borrowings, BSP approval shall be obtained prior to signing of the covering agreement/effectivity of change (for public sector and publicly-guaranteed private sector foreign loans/borrowings) or Notice to BSP-IOD (for private sector foreign loans/borrowings that are not publicly-guaranteed ) shall be sent within one (1) month from availability of information (as applicable),

(c) Pertinent documents/information shall be made available upon request by the BSP for verification;

(d) Changes to any submitted foreign borrowings plan covering loans/borrowings shall be communicated to the BSP-IOD within two (2) weeks upon availability of information for monitoring purposes;

(e) The information disclosed in this Annex and its attachments (if any) are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, complete, true and correct, and this declaration is made in good faith. Said information may be used by the BSP for its intended purpose, subject to pertinent laws, rules and regulations;

(f) Any concealment/misrepresentation made under this Annex and its attachments (if any), and failure to comply with commitments indicated herein may cause the cancellation/revocation of the approval/registration document/letter authority that may be issued by the BSP and/or denial of future applications for BSP action;

(g) This Annex and its attachments (if any) submitted via official channel (whether in hardcopy or via electronic/digital means) are genuine, credible and not tampered;

(h) I have been duly authorized by the borrower's management/Board of Directors/appropriate approving authority to file this application and present the information contained herein; and

(i) Ihave read and understood all the instructions contained herein.

Signature’ over printed name of authorized officer”

Designation

Email address

### Date :

* Wet/electronic/digital signature

© Refers to an officer with a rank equivalent to at least Head of the agency/President/Chief Executive Officer/Chief Operating Officer/Chief Finance Officer/Chief Treasury Officer; otherwise, he/she must be duly authorized by the Board of Directors or any of the foregoing/appropriate approving authority or its equivalent.

1OD Form 03-001-03 * Version 3 *Updated <date> Page Sof5

## Page 39

Deadline: On or before September 30 of every year Submission: I Email to International Operations Department atiod loans@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf and .xIs/.xIsx format

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### REPORT ON BOT/OTHER SIMILAR FINANCING SCHEMES *

### REPORTING ENTITY: PART A: PROJECTED FUNDING REQUIREMENTS FOR BOT/OTHER SIMILAR FINANCING SCHEMES v ### FOR THE YEAR (In Original Currency) BSP Reference No. Project Contractor/Project Company BSP MB Approval/Notation Contract Date Cooperation Period

(Indicate start and end)

Ps dP me I ee ror Fees’! re ee ee

### - PTTL.

### * Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Dec-2018) Prepared by: “Include fees payable in Philippine Pesos Identify each type of fee under each category, e.g. start-up, capacity, service, energy

infrastracture, O & M, as well as assumptions used. If a fee is payable in more than

one (1) currency, break amounts payable in currency Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer ### ¥ Show totals by currency Position: Department: ### Tel No.: Fax No.: ### Email Address: ### Address:

### ANNEX!

Page 1 of 2

## Page 40

### ANNEX I!

Deadtine: Within 10 banking days from end of reference month Submission: Email to international Operations Department at iod_!oans@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf and .xIs/.xtsx format

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### REPORT ON BOT/OTHER SIMILAR FINANCING SCHEMES *

### REPORTING ENTITY:

PART B: REPORT ON PAYMENTS UNDER BOT/OTHER SIMILAR FINANCING SCHEMES v ### FOR THE MONTH OF (In Original Currency)

### PAYMENT BSP Contract Billing Reference No. Contractor/Project Compan Source of FX 7

* Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Dec-2018) "Include fees payable in Philippine Pesos

### 2 Use the following codes for source of payments in foreign exchange: PBS - Philippine Banking System FCD - Withdrawals from FDC Accounts OTH - Obtained from Other Sources (Please specify source in footnote}

### Certified Correct:

Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer

### Position: Department: ### Tel No.: Fax No.: ### Email Address:

### Address:

Page 2 of 2

## Page 41

### ANNEX W

### Y BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

International Operations Department ### APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN INVESTMENTS"

### L] Registration of new/additional investments:

### [] Other transactions involving issuance of BSRD:

<Please specify>

(e.g.. replacement for old/lost BSRD, consolidation of previously issued BSRDs, change in corporate structure)

Type (in original currency)

Shares applied/involved Amount of investment applied/involved

(Type of shares: common, preferred participating/non-participating) Note: Indicate the number of nominee shares included in the shares applied for registration, if any

### 1. APPLICANT IDENTIFICATION

Contact Person Designation (Mr./Ms./Mrs.) gnatio Company Email Company

Address Contact No/s. Company Fax No.

Company/Office

Company Address (with zip code)

lif the applicant is not the investor/investee, this shall be supported by an authority (from the investor/investee) to transact in their behalf]

### A. INVESTOR PROFILE

Name of Firm/Individual

Address of Firm/ndividual (including country)

B. INVESTEE PROFILE //f the investee is the applicant, proceed to item I/] Business/Corporate/ Trade Name Company Address (with zip code) Contact Person/

a Application Form and any subsequent submission of supporting documents should be accompanied by a covering letter/email indicating, among others, documents submitted. All fields should be properly filled-out; indicate N/A for fields that are not applicable. Use the following format for dates: DD-MMM-YYYY (e.g., 01-Jan-2021)

10D Form No. 03-002-01 * Version 8 * Updated <date> Page lof 5

## Page 42

### ANNEX W

### 1. INVESTMENT

[_] Corporation ### Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Registration Number: Primary Purpose/Industry

### Date:

Philippine Standard Industrial Classification (PSIC) Code”

Capital Structure

No. of Shares Total Par Value Additional (@ PHP___pv/share) (# shares X Paid-In Capital [Indicate class of shares] pv/share) (if any)

[Authorized CapitalStock. I SSSCSCSCSCSCSCC“‘dSsi“‘CtstCSCSCSCSY SSS Subscribed Filipino Foreign Held by the non-resident of which, subject request

Amount Percentage Ownership

Paid-up Filipino Foreign Held by the non-resident of which, subject request

() Partnership ### SEC Registration No.: Date:

(] Philippine Branch/Representative Office/Regional Operating Headquarters/Regional Headquarters ### SEC License To Do Business No:: Amount of Total Assigned Capital/ ### Operating Working Capital: PSIC Code”

(] Condominium unit ### Name of Condominium: Location: ### Name of Developer/Realtor: ### Condominium Certificate of Title No.: ### Unit/s Number: ‘(please include parking slots ifany) == ~~ ~—S—Sst=CS=«‘(<‘<;7T“<S!”*;C<C;CSCS;SW

### (] Others (specify):

Details of Previous BSP Registration, if any

BSRD No. Date of Registration No. of Shares/Amount Registered

b Use latest version available at the Philippine Statistics Authority's website. Please use the five (5}digit level PSIC code.

c Refers to investments in instruments under Section 33.1.(c), 33.3.b.(i), 33.3.d, 33.3.e.{i) and 35 not covered by the abovementioned investments. For investments in debt securities issued by residents under Section 33.3.b.{i), investment funds created onshore under Section 33.3.d and PDRs under Section 33.3.e.(i), fill out capital structure above if the non-resident investor has existing holdings in the investee firm (as applicable).

1OD Form No. 03-002-01 * Version 8 * Updated <date> Page 2 of 5

## Page 43

### ANNEX W

Hl. FUNDING DETAILS C] InCash

[] a. inward Remittance of FX CL] b. Constructive remittance of FX funding to resident deposit account 1. Details of remittance

Certificate of Inward Remittance (CIR), Remittance Telegraphic Amount Remitted if applicable Transfer Ref. No. I (in Original Currency)

Equivalent US$

### * FX rate used:

2. Details of peso conversion

Amount

Conversion Converted Conversion PHP Proceeds Date (in Original (net of charges) Currency)

### /f without conversion to PHP:

Amount not converted (in original currency) PHP equivalent FX booking rate a QO

The balance (total peso/US$/other foreign currency proceeds less amount applied to the investment transaction, if any) in the amount of is recorded in the books of the investee as (e.g., Advances, Deposit for Stock Subscription) (] ec. FX payments made offshore between non-residents for transfer of onshore investments ### Amount of FX paid (in original currency):

### Date paid: ### if investment acquired is registered: /f investment acquired is not registered: BSRD number and date: Indicate funding details of initial investment

<e.g., cash, in kind>

CL] d. Peso balance of non-resident investor’s onshore peso deposit account and interim peso deposit account ### Name of Depository Authorized Agent Bank: ### Amount utilized for the investment: ### Date of debit from the account:

### Source of funding for peso deposit (i.e., indicated in Section 3.1 of the FX Manual):

(] e. Reinvestment of peso divestment/sales proceeds or related earnings of investment ### Amount for reinvestment: ### Date of reinvestment:

### /f original investment is registered: /f original investment is not registered: BSRD number and date: Indicate funding details of original investment ee eg cash in kind? (1 £. Conversion of liability to investment

### Amount converted to investment (in original currency): PHP equivalent: ### Date of conversion: ### If liability is registered: If liability is not registered:

BSRD number and date: Indicate funding details of liabillity

seg. cash, in kind> I g. Exercise of conversion rights [e.g., Philippine Depository Receipts (PDRs)] ### Underlying instrument (indicate units/amount): ### Date of exercise of right: ### {f registered: /f not registered: BSRD number and date: Indicate funding details of initial investment <e.g., cash, in kind>

IOD Form No. 03-002-01 * Version 8 * Updated <date> Page 3 of 5

## Page 44

### ANNEX W

CL] InKind

a. Heavy Equipment and Machinery/Inventories/Raw Materials/Supplies/Spare Parts/Furniture/Personal Properties/Motor Vehicle/Sea Vessel/Aircraft including other tangible assets from abroad

Bill of Lading/Air waybill/ Bureau of Customs (BOC) import Sea waybill entry declaration

(May use separate sheet/pages if not sufficient) ### Date of full payment for investment:

OO b. Intangible assets

### Description of asset: ### Value of asset: PHP equivalent: ### Date of acquisition:

C1 ¢. Steck and/or property dividends accruing from onshore investments

### Number of base/mother/original shares: ### Declaration/effectivity date (whichever is applicable):

### If base/mother/original shares are registered: /f base/mother/original shares are not registered:

BSRD number and date: Indicate funding details of initial investment <e.g., cash, in kind> (_ d. Shares (e.g., share swaps)

### Date of acquisition of new shares:

Details of shares issued/transferred/swapped ### Original issuer of the underlying shares transferred/swapped: ### Number of shares: ### Value of shares:

### If shares acquired are originally held by non-residents: ### If registered: If not registered: BSRD number and date: Indicate details of original investment <e.g., cash, in kind>

[_] Others <please provide details>

For additional information, please use separate sheet ### IV. DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED For registration of new/additional investments

im Proof of funding oO Proof of investment ### Please specify: Please specify:

For other transactions involving issuance of BSRD (e.g., replacement of lost BSRD) ### Please specify’:

*E.g., Affidavit of Loss

lIOD Form No. 03-002-01 * Version 8 * Updated <date> Page 4 of 5

## Page 45

### ANNEX W

### DECLARATION

### I hereby certify and undertake that:

(a) The transaction covered by this application complies/will comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including required approvals/clearances/endorsements/ permits/authorization from the concerned government agencies/oversight bodies;

(b) The investment funds came from legitimate sources;

(c) Pertinent documents/information shall be made available upon request by the BSP for verification;

(d) The information disclosed in this Application Form and its attachments are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, complete, true and correct, and this declaration is made in good faith. Said information may be used by the BSP for its intended purpose, subject to pertinent laws, rules and regulations;

(e) Any concealment/misrepresentation made under this Application Form and its attachments, and failure to comply with commitments indicated herein may cause the cancellation/revocation of the registration document that may be issued by the BSP ### and/or denial of future applications for BSP action:

(f) This Application Form and supporting documents submitted via official channel (whether in hardcopy or via electronic/digital means) are genuine, credible and not tampered;

(g) I have been duly authorized by the investor/investor's management/Board of Directors/appropriate approving authority to file this application and present the information contained herein; and

(h) I have read and understood all the instructions contained herein. Signature® Name

Designation Date

3 Wet/electronic/digital signature

1OD Form No. 03-002-01 * Version 8 * Updated <date> Page 5 of 5

## Page 46

### ANNEX X

Deadline: For FX seliing banks: Five (5) banking days from date of sale of FX For remitting banks: Five (5) banking days from date of remittance

Submission: Email to International Operations Department

BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS at iod_iog3@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf and .xls/.xIsx format ### REPORT ON FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REGISTERED WITH THE BSP” Date: Report Category: A-2

### Reporting Bank:

### CAPITAL REPATRIATION/S:

Type of BSRD No. Investee Investor Investment Date of y No. of Shares I Net Peso Sales (FDI, FPI, Others)?/I Divestment Proceeds

Amount Remitted Date of Country of Currency In Original In Equivalent Remittance Destination” Currency” US$

Peso Amount Amount Remitted Date of Country of Remittable*! Currency " Original In Equivalent Us$I Remittance I Destination” urrenc

### EARNINGS REMITTANCE/S:

V Include in this report remittances on investments of Special Investor's Resident Visa hoiders/applicants covered by BSRDs with a "V" after the BSRD No. Other Instructions:

2/ For the definition of FDIs or FPIs, please refer to Section 33 of the FX Manual Use MM-DD-CCYY for all date fields

+ Date of receipt of divestment or sales proceeds Indicate page number for every page used “! For stock corporation; in the case of non-stock entities, indicate gross amountof sales/divestment proceeds in PHP Use standard country codes

5/ Net of tax and charges

*/ indicate whether self-funded

7/1 remitted to onshore account, indicate bank name where the funds were deposited. Certified True and Correct: ®/ For earnings other than cash dividends, indicate reckoning date for reported earnings remittance (e.g., end of fiscal year. <month>, <year>)

*» Refer to cash dividends arising from investments in shares of stock

For non-corporate entities, indicate amount of capital or principal for which interest and profits accrue. Signature Over Printed Name of Authorized Officer ### Position: Department: ### Tel No.: Fax No.:

### Email Address: ### Address:

## Page 47

### ANNEX Y

Deadiine: Within two (2) banking days from date of actual remittance Submission: Email to International Operations Department at iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf and .xIs/.xisx format

### REPORT ON TRANSACTIONS ON PSE-LISTED EQUITY SECURITIES* ISSUED BY NON-RESIDENTS

(Reporting Depository Bank) {Report Date}

Net Peso

. - i emittance International Sale by Non-Resident Issuers Interest Earned FXR ti

Securities Net Peso Sales

Par Value Per Amount Country of os Country of v9 Share Proceeds After! Amount Ip omitted afterI In Original In USD Date of ¥y

Tax and Currency” Equivalent’

Residency” Number Country of No. of Tax and {in PHP) Remittance I Destination™

In PHP (ISIN) { ) Residency” Shares Sold Charges

Use MM-DD-CCYY for all date fields indicate page number

* Refer to equity securities of non-residents primarily listed at the PSE under item h of Section 3.1 of the FX Manual

** Depository bank must also be the selling and remitting bank.

VThe country where the issuer/firm is registered.

1 Date of receipt of divestment/sales proceeds

¥ pertains to interest earned on peso deposit funded by onshore sales proceeds of PSE-listed securities of non-resident issuers

“ indicate currency symbol, e.g., US$; EUR; JPY

* Based on depository bank's FX selling rate on date of remittance ® If remitted to onshore account, indicate bank where the funds were deposited and add "-LB”

### Certified Correct:

Signature Over Printed Name

Position

## Page 48

### APPENDIX 20 Reserved

