# 1184

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1184 Series of 2023

Subject: The Enhanced Comprehensive Credit and Equity Exposures Report (COCREE) of 2023

The Monetary Board (MB), in its Resolution No. 1630 dated 14 December 2023, approved to enhance the 2021 Comprehensive Credit and Equity Exposures Report (COCREE) required from Universal/Commercial Banks (U/KBs), their Thrift Banks (TBs)/Non-bank Financial Institutions with Quasi-banking Functions (NBQBs)/Trust Corporation (TCs) subsidiaries, and Digital Banks by expanding its data requirements in support of further strengthening the surveillance and analysis of emerging risks in BSP-supervised financial institutions (BSFIs) and the financial system. Pursuant to such objective, coverage of the enhanced report, referred to as COCREE 2.0, is likewise expanded to all TBs, Rural Banks (RBs), Cooperative Banks (Coop Banks), NBQBs, and TCs. The relevant sections of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) shall be amended to implement ### COCREE 2.0.

Section 1. Section 173/172-Q (REPORTS) of the MORB/MORNBFI on “Comprehensive Credit and Equity Exposures Report’, introduced by Circular ### No. 1131 dated 13 December 2021, are hereby amended to read, as follows:

“Section 173/172-Q REPORTS ### XXX

Comprehensive Credit and Equity Exposures Report. The Comprehensive Credit and Equity Exposures Report (COCREE) is designed to capture granular borrower/counterparty information for all credit and equity exposures of BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls). The COCREE shall cover Universal/Commercial Banks (U/KBs), Thrift Banks (TBs), Rural Banks (RBs), Cooperative Banks (Coop Banks), Non-bank Financial Institutions with Quasi-banking Functions (NBQBs), Trust Corporations (TCs), and Digital Banks. The latest version of the report is the 2023 edition referred to as COCREE 2.0.

The COCREE 2.0 shall be considered a Category A-1 report.

The electronic submission of the COCREE 2.0 shall conform with the prescribed submission procedures and guidelines covering the required format structure, line-item instructions, validation rules and appropriate technology for reporting, among others.

### XXX Section 2. Appendix 7 of the MORB on the Reports Required of Banks,

Appendix Q-3 of the MORNBFI on the List of Reports Required from Quasi-banks, and Appendix T-3 of the MORNBFI on the List of Reports Required

## Page 2

from Trust Corporations are hereby amended, as shown in Annex A of this Circular.

Section 3. To prepare and familiarize BSFIs with the new requirement, the submission of COCREE 2.0 will be open for pilot testing from January 2024 until its live implementation. The schedule for the live implementation of ### COCREE 2.0 is, as follows:

Live Implementation of COCREE 2.0 ### Frequenc: U/KBs, subsidiary TBs/NBQBs/ I Ending Monthly ; Banks days after

Stand-alone TBs/NBQBs/TCs_ I Ending Monthly end of 30 September 2024 reporting

reference

RBs and Coop Banks Ending Quarterly I period 31 December 2024

Penalties for reporting violations of COCREE 2.0 shall not be imposed during the pilot period. Imposition of penalties, however, shall be strictly enforced after the grace period of three (3) reporting periods from COCREE 2.0’s live implementation.

The CREDEX' of U/KBs, and their subsidiary TBs/NBQBs/TCs shall be discontinued after reporting period 31 December 2023, while CREDEX reporting for the rest of the covered BSFls shall no longer be required upon live implementation of COCREE 2.0.

The 2021 COCREE of U/KBs, their subsidiary TBs/NBQBs/TCs, and Digital Banks shall no longer be required upon live implementation of COCREE 2.0. Penalties for reporting violations of 2021 COCREE shall also no longer apply.

Section 4. Other relevant procedures, guidelines and protocols on submission process, reporting structure, data dictionary (DD), line-item instructions (LI), pilot testing, validation rules and appropriate technology for electronic reporting of COCREE 2.0 to the Bangko Sentral shall be covered in a separate regulatory issuance.

Section 5. This Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days following its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general

circulation. ### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD: ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Governor ice December 2023

' CREDEX is referred to as the Report on Credit and Equity Exposures to Individuals/Companies/Groups aggregating to 1.0 Million and Above.

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

### PRIMARY REPORTS

A. UBs/KBs

Unnumbered I Section 173

{M-020 dated 04.22.14, as amended

by Cir. Nos. 890 dated 11.02.15, 963 dated 06.27.17, M-O28 dated 09.11.17, Cir. No. 1131 dated 12.13.21, and

Cir. No. 1184 dated

15 December 2023)

### REPORTS REQUIRED OF BANKS

[Appendix to Sec. 173]

Comprehensive Credit and Equity Exposures Report ### {COCREE) 2.0

Monthly

### ANNEX A

25 banking days after end via BSP of reference month Relationship Management

System

Pagelof5

## Page 4

### ANNEX A

B. Digital Banks

Comprehensive Credit and Monthly 25 banking days after end via BSP

Equity Exposures Report of reference month Relationship (M-020 dated (COCREE}) 2.0 Management 04.22.14, as amended System

by Cir. Nos. 890 dated 11.02.15, 963 dated 06.27.17, M-028 dated 09.11.17, Cir. No. 1131 dated 12.13.21, and Cir. No. 1184 dated

15 December 2023)

Page 2of5

## Page 5

### ANNEX A

C. TBs

a <- e e- Cir. No. 1184 dated

A-] Unnumbered I Section 173 Comprehensive Credit and Monthly 25 banking days after end via BSP of reference month Relationship Management System 15 December 2023)

Equity Exposures Report ee «Ss <= = «SO © =

{M-020 dated 04.22.14, as amended by Cir. Nos. 890 dated 11.02.15, 963 dated 06.27.17, M-O28 dated 09.11.17, Cir. No. 1131 dated 12.13.21, and

### (COCREE) 2.0

D. RBs/Coop Banks

= a a Procedure pK

### U .

A-l nnumbered I Section 173 Comprehensive Credit and Quarterly 25 banking days after via BSP Relationship (Cir. No. 1184 dated Equity Exposures Report end of reference quarter I Management System 15 December 2023) (COCREE) 2.0 Pex mm me wo mew

Page 3 of 5

## Page 6

### ANNEX A

### LIST OF REPORTS REQUIRED FROM QUASI-BANKS

[Appendix to Sec. 172-Q]

25 business days after end via BSP 1131 dated 12.13.21, Equity Exposures Report of reference month Relationship

and Cir. No. 1184 (COCREE) 2.0 Management dated 15 December System 2023)

Page 40f5

## Page 7

### ANNEXA

### LIST OF REPORTS REQUIRED FROM TRUST CORPORATIONS

lAppendix to Sec. 183-T]

Procedure

### U

xx ee ee A-1 nnumbered I Section 172-Q (Cir. Comprehensive Credit and Monthly 25 business days after end via BSP No. 113] dated 12.13.21, I Equity Exposures Report of reference month Relationship and Cir. No. 1184 {COCREE) 2.0 Management dated 15 December System 2023) ### XXX

PKK I mmm mm we me me

Page 5 of 5 