# 1186

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1186 Series of 2023

Subject; Amendments to the Guidelines on Disclosures to the Public

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1502 dated 16 November 2023, approved the amendments to the guidelines on disclosures to the public as provided under Section 175 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB).

Section 1. Section 175 of the MORB on public disclosures is hereby amended as ### follows:

### 175 DISCLOSURES TO THE PUBLIC

It is the thrust of the Bangko Sentral to promote market discipline and greater transparency through the provision of comprehensive, relevant, reliable, and comparable disclosures. The disclosures provide the public with sufficient information which reflects the financial condition, performance, corporate governance policies and processes, and risk management strategies and exposures of the bank.

Duties and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors. Consistent with the

principles embodied under Sec. 132 (Duties and responsibilities of the board of

directors) the board of directors shall ensure that information intended for public

disclosure -

### a. is supported by an effective internal control structure:

b. has undergone review and approval by appropriate management and/or board-level committee; and

c. is compliant with the governance process on the quality of reporting under Sec. 171.

The board of directors shall have the overall responsibility in ensuring that reports prescribed under this Section fully disclose the minimum information required. The board of directors may delegate its oversight function to a board-level committee.

Publication/Posting of Balance Sheet/Consolidated Balance Sheet.

a. Banks shall prepare a quarterly Balance Sheet (BS) on both solo basis {i.e., head office plus branches/other offices) and consolidated basis (i.e, parent bank plus subsidiary financial allied undertakings, but excluding insurance companies), as applicable, using the prescribed form.

b, The Consolidated Balance Sheet (CBS) shall be prepared in accordance with the rules of consolidation provided under the Financial Reporting Package (FRP), in which case, only financial allied subsidiaries, except subsidiary insurance companies, shall be consolidated on a line-by-line basis, while non- financial allied subsidiaries including subsidiary insurance companies shall be accounted for using the equity method.

¢. The quarterly BS and CBS where applicable, shall be published side-by-side within thirty-five (35) banking days after the end of the reference quarter, ina

## Page 2

printed or online version of a newspaper of general circulation in the city/province where the principal office, in the case of a domestic bank, or the principal branch/office, in the case of a foreign bank, is located, but if no newspaper is published in the same province, then in a newspaper published in Metro Manila or in the nearest city/province.

d. Inthe case of a stand-alone’ thrift, rural! and cooperative bank, it may either publish its quarterly BS and CBS, as applicable, consistent with item “c" above, or post the same in the most conspicuous area of its premises, in the municipal building, municipal public market, barangay hall and barangay public market where the head office and all its branches are located. The printed copy must be of sufficient size and easily readable by the public and shall be posted within thirty-five (35) banking days after the end of the reference quarter, and for a period of at least three (3) months.

e. Asan alternative mode of compliance to items (c) and {d) above, a bank may upload its quarterly BS and CBS, as applicable, on its website, and shared for a period of at least one (1) year. In addition to this, banks may also display a tabletop standee with QR codes in a conspicuous place in the head office, all its branches and other offices, or through other digital/electronic means to make available their BS/CBS, as applicable, in digital format.

f— The quarterly BS and CBS shall be considered a Category A-1 report and shall be submitted in the mode and manner as provided in Appendix 7 through the prescribed electronic platform in accordance with the following ### submission timelines:

Submission Deadline Soft copy of BS (Solo Basis using the I 15 banking days after the end of the prescribed form) reference quarter Soft copy of BS (Consolidated Basis 30 banking days after the end of the

using the prescribed form) reference quarter

Published/Posted 8S/CBS, as applicable, I 35 banking days after the end of the (together with the proof of I reference quarter

publication/posting of the said BS and

CBS, as applicable)

g. Banks shall disclose in the quarterly published/posted BS and CBS, as applicable, the financial indicators covering asset quality, related party transactions, liquidity, profitability, capital adequacy and leverage.

### Banks shall also disclose the following information in their CBS:

(1} List of financial allied subsidiaries (excluding subsidiary insurance companies); and

(2) List of subsidiary insurance companies.

For purposes of additional information, all amounts and ratios shall be as of

the same reference period. However, the formula for computing the

### following profitability indicators shall be as follows:

(1) Return On Equity (%)

Net Income (or Loss) After Income Tax x 100 Average Total Capital Accounts

Net Income (or Loss} After Income Tax x 100

Average Earning Assets

I This refers to a thrift, rural or cooperative bank that is not a subsidiary of a universal or commercial bank.

2 Banks which are unable to maintain a website due to financial and technological capacity limitations may disseminate their quarterly BS and CBS, as applicable, by posting the same on the website of their respective banking industry associations for a period of at least one (1} year.

(2) Return on Assets(%)

Page 2 of 4&

## Page 3

(3) Net Interest Margin(%) = Net Interest Income x 100 Average Earnings Assets

Where net income/(loss) after tax, net interest income, average earnings ### assets, and average total capital accounts shall be:

Net Income (Loss) Net Interest Income Average Earning Average Total Capital After Tax (NIAT) (Ni) Assets? Accounts Quarter end NIAT Quarter end NII Sum of end-month Sum of end-month capital

multiplied by 4 multiplied by 4 earnings assets (December I accounts (December - - March) divided by 4 March) divided by 4

June Semester end NIAT Semester end Nil Sum of end-month Sum of end-month capital multiplied by 2 multiplied by 2 earnings assets (December I accounts (December -

- June} divided by 7 June) divided by 7

September Nine (9} months-end I Nine (9) months-end Sum of end-month Sum of end-month capital NIAT multiplied by Nil multiplied by earnings assets (December {I accounts (December - 1.33333 1.33333 - September) divided by10 I September) divided by 10

December Year-end NIAT Year-end Nil Sum of end-month Sum of end-month capital earnings assets (December I accounts (December - - December) divided by 13 December) divided by 13

h. Deferment of publication requirement. The abovementioned publication requirement may be deferred by the Monetary Board by at least five (5) affirmative votes upon application by the bank concerned during periods of national and/or local emergency or of imminent panic which directly threaten monetary and banking stability.

The amended prescribed form for the published BS shall be used starting with the quarter end- December 2023 reports.

Disclosure requirements in the annual report. The minimum disclosure requirement in the annual report of banks is aimed at ensuring that proper disclosure is made on all significant matters regarding the bank, including its financial condition, performance, ownership and governance.

All banks shall prepare an annual report which shall include a discussion and/or ### analysis of the following minimum information in no particular order:

### XXX.

Posting and submission of annual report. A copy of the latest annual report shall be posted/displayed by the bank in a conspicuous place in its head office, all its branches and other offices. Alternatively, banks may make the said report available in digital copies by displaying a tabletop standee with QR codes ina conspicuous place in the head office, all its branches and other offices, or through other digital/electronic means. The annual report should also be published on the bank’s website.

### XXX.

3 Earning assets shall be composed of the following: (1) Total Loan Portfolio - Net; (2) Due from Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas; (3) Due from Other Central Banks and Banks; (4) Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVPL): (S) Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCIH) - Net; (6} Debt Securities at Amortized Cost - Net; and (7) Sales Contract Receivables - Net.

Page 3 of 4

## Page 4

The annual report and ARAC shall be submitted in soft copy in Portable Document Format (PDF) in the mode and manner as provided in Appendix 7.

Supervisory enforcement action. Consistent with the provisions of Section 002, the Bangko Sentral reserves the right to deploy its range of supervisory enforcement tools to promote adherence to the requirements set forth in the foregoing guidelines.

### The applicable monetary penalties shall be:

1}

2)

For erroneous reports, delayed reports, erroneous and delayed reports, and unsubmitted reports. & bank shall be subject to the fines for erroneous, delayed, erroneous and delayed, and unsubmitted (i) soft copy of the BS and CBS, as applicable, in prescribed form: {ii) the published or posted copy of the BS and CBS’, as applicable, together with proof of publication or posting, or (iii) annual reports and ARAC as provided under Sec. 171 (Sanctions on reports ### for non-compliance with the reporting standards):

For failure to publish/post or non-disclosure of certain information. Failure to publish or post the BS and CBS, as applicable, or willful non-disclosure of any item required to be disclosed under this Sec. shall be subject to the appropriate monetary penalties under Sec. 004 that will be imposed on the bank.

The Bangko Sentral shall also determine if the non-disclosure involves material information that may mislead the public, which warrants stiffer sanctions as provided under Sec, 002.

For this purpose, material information refers to information which if omitted or misstated, could change or influence the assessment or decisions of a person relying on the disclosure, such as depositors, creditors, investors, and professional analysts, for the purpose of making deposits and investments, among others.

Section 2. The prescribed reportorial template of the published/posted balance

sheet for banks on both solo and consolidated bases is attached as Annex A-1 of this Circular.

Section 3. Appendix 7 of the MORB on Reports Required of Banks is amended to

reflect the new manner of reporting of the published/posted balance sheet and Annual Report Assessment Checklist. The amended provisions are shown in Annex B of this Circular.

Section 4. This Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days following its

publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

### A WL

### ELI M. REMOLONA JR.

Governor i

2i December 2023

* Shall be considered as a single report with other prudential reports submitted through the Application Programming Interface pursuant to Circular 1177 dated 12 July 2023.

Page4of4

## Page 5

ANNEX A-1 of Circular

Balance Sheet Sos Basin

(Nam of Bankr {Saw Code!

Asok

iM

[cashandcash items eee BRDOUCOOSOONGODD OF OOGp on [Duc from Benake Senlialng Pdipinas NN Pssooucrn 22003, eT) nT o-s I [Dus from Other Central Spoke and Banks Net «ie SCRCSTOOCODS oot O00 I Financial Assets at Fale Value through Profit or Loss [FVPL)”” Jrospavonccoogoag Too 2.00 I [Financiat Ateets at Fair Value throwan Other Comorehentive Income (FVOCH) Net, [iwanaoaopooqqeacg TT ggg 0.00 I Debt Securitios mt Amortized Cost: Net fan paoreaze poof ogo I Loans to Bangko Sentrat ng Pilipinas HANNS OOOO MOOD SL >) <= [interbank losnsRecelabig SC pee RRC CGO OF Ooh OI LoansandRecewables Olmos RS SORCDOOOONIOCD OP OGY 6 Loansand Recelvables Ansing fromRAKAIPRISLA spe ROOQISOGGO I oof oan Total Loan Portfolio (LP) Crost: TRAN San aree eer : Pane See DEE fanowance tor credit toneea® id ssszoezoorcoce f—cgaf _———00 Equity Investment in Subshanes Associnies ond Joint Ventures fel [issasosonzapaoras of OOF aol Hank Sromises. Furniture Flvture and Equipment Net litsxroscaoecoesses, Of OOP al [gal ond Other Properties Acaures NOU PREC PRRTOOOTD a <7) SO T=) I [Sates Contract Recevables Net Iastarisonoeanegaus TT.) <1) IeMSCUNDOITINS 5 -.) <7 <:) [oine: Assets NOt SO] [Nel Que from Head Offce/Branches-Agencies (Philmpine branch of atereign bank) I Tssrsceacoeoateaot Da onnevenn — 509 STOTAL ASSETS renin DIDI OARI IIIS AEDT Yr I ee a [Deposttabilties CSCC Jz DDDOCODOOIGOD ogaf 00) [Due to Othe? Beem eNO OT eee 2 I ee Imerbank Loans Payable frastoscarogocooceo fF Ca thrr Borrowings Including Qeposs Substivutes Jszomowaruosonsg tO oc} [BondsPayabie- Net fesse ROONOOIODD Goof cay ltinsecured Subgrdinated Debt Nel. OOCOCOCSCSCCSCCC I SRTSRESECTONOOO OY go oc [Redcemable Pefenca Snares ee feeetorrmncrgoncon feof 900) lotherliabines SST nnn nen] el Due to Head Ollie BranchewAgencics (Phimpinebronchefatorcianbank) ___—_—*;zsomroampggadgagg "FG OOF bon] rOTALLIABIITIES. fn QOBOOSSOOOD Yn ee ### CTT CSS 2 NE <5) Pétion! pai in Gapital OT eneoosananes feng} _ 99 9.09. [Retained Earns gg RR nme WO fomer Capital Accounts" pecans _._.I ___eea} eat [Assigned Capial Pre rOEONNOOTTSS NY 0 ei) froTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY. fpr oacanEDesSS ae eo} I Joosrantees SCR re ERC GP ovo] Fissnciat Standby leuemoteredt torino Goof ooo] [Performance Stondby Letters cfCred end nigemeozaconece fof Goa] FCommerciglieiters cf Credit rrr eee SESE RIISE SING O08] Fieade Related Guarantees fen CBONOG OF .OOf [commitments ef ag a RROROOIC PF oO] [Spat Foretan Exchenge Contacts" fussegaanaseasancco [0 00} Securities Held Under Custodianship by Bank Proper ssqeznocacescccoes (ODT co) rust Department Accounts COREE a Ke?) AT T=) I Derivatives dp DQ QDGODOD fon fothers SS _feazcnnnp an occccona f.OGT 0.00] ### TOTAL CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 9 a PASSER QUAY rn [ Cross Non Performing tears MIPLIRSNG sw CSCSCSCSC*~*~‘C*~C IODC ou T 0 00r6! SEES COST Sc Cs [Peet NFL COV CIO Re ee tne BRET IODE III NG «Kc =) SN = <2 I ### ELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS ~ : EN SS UOC Ratio of Loans to Related Parties to grosr tL Ratio of Non-Paricrming Loans to Related Parties lo Totat Loans to Retated Forties PAWS SIDOOWNOOIOS CRT I [Ratio oF DOSRT LOOT 10 pr ee eee eee nnnine SIPAEEOSORICIEDED nn 9 89%] Ratio of ton Peifoiming DOSAI Loans to Total toons to DOSRE SATIS DOO IOS TS: s Tn ### TQUILATY, > SENSRREE SL SE

i _Lquiday Govnraze Ratin © sxsnsooopeencoco sf OCS GH Net Stable Funding Ratio ~ APLTEREDCOOE 209% Minimum ilquidity Ratio, PRNOFIFABITY “5 ae Decne vausumemrd PieturmontquiyROEl entrancing Lenox [99% Return on Assets het interest Margin, jenmieronaycoesass [gE obo] ### ICAPITAL ADEQUACY - EON EE (OA Common Equity Tiet 1 Ratio. fssaversaoocczoo Pe aon Tier Capital Pat REREEEES IONIAN DOS [renner SOO I 8.085%] cap ee MSE SOOTE TOOT eos? tee LEVERAG! a § Basef il Leverage Ratio * [eemareaggcoomzaceo sf oom one ‘Deferred Chorges not yel Wallen Down,

WV This account is comprised of Financial Assets Held for Teading (HFT). Debt Secunties Designated at FVFL and Othe: Financtat Assets Mandatorily Meastered at FVPL

2 This acccount Is comprised ef Specific Allowance for Credit Losses and General Loan bots Provision

3/ This account Is comprised of Financial Liabilities Held for Trading. and Financial Liabilities Oes!gnated at FVFL

4f Only applicable to Universal and Commercial Banks and their subsidiary banks,

5/ Only applicable to Stand-atone TBs, Rs. and Ceop Banks

Page 1 of 2

## Page 6

Farm 26 {Revised 2022}

Balance Sheet

Comsptaated Bars

ihane of Bark!

Asof.

Tey Fe

### ASSETS

Ca nd Cash items

Due from Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Due from Other Central Banks and Banks - Net

Financlal Assets at Fats Value through Profit or Leas (FPL)

Financial Atspts al Falr Value Thrown Other Comprehensive income IFVOCI) - Net Debt Securities at Amortized Cost - Not

Loans to Bangko Sentral n¢ Pilipinas

Interbank Loans Recolvanle.

Loans and Receivables - Others

Loans and Recetvabies Arising from RA/CAPRISLB

Tatas Loan Portfolio (TEP): Gross

Allownnee tor Creclit Losses”

Totattoan Portfolios Net!

Esuity tnvestment in Subsidianes Associnies and Joint Ventures - Met

Bank Premises. Furnilure Fixture and Equipment - Net

Real and Other Propertins Acquired - Net

Sales Cortrart Recelables - Net

INen Current Assets Held for Sale

Other Assets - Ket

er Due from Head Ofice/Branches‘Agcnties (Philippine branch of a foreign bank

TOTAL ASSETS : a “ ### LIABELITIES

Finsnclat Liabilities of fait Value through Profit or toss VEL) * ### De, it Liabilities:

Due te Other Banks Bilt Payatsio ### SP iRediscounting and Other ERS:

Interbank Loans Payable Othe: Borrowings inctading Depeslt Substitutes Bonds Payatic: Net URsecuied Subordinated Debt - het Redeemable Preterres Shares Other Liabilities Net Sue to Head Office/Branches/Agencics (Philippine branch of a foreign Ganki ### JOTAL VARIUTIES

### STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY

Capital Stock Adstional Pais-In Capital Undivided Profits Actained Enralngs her Capital Accounts, Assiqned Capital ### TOTAL STOOKUIOLDERS Et A w:

### TOTAL ABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY:

### CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS

vara Iss Financlat Standby Letters of Credlt Pertoymance Standby Letters of Credit Commercial Letters of Credit Trader Related Guarantecs Commitments Spot Foreign Exchanae Contracts. Securities Hels Under Custodionstin by Bank Pronee Teust Ocpartment Accounts ### Derivatives: athers ### TOTAL CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS

FINANCIAL INDICATORS {in %)

### ASSET QUALITY. Ctoss Non -Prriotming Loans (NPL} Ratic. Net NPt Rata ‘Gross NFL Coverage Ratio Net NPL Coverage Ratio

Ratio of Loans to Related Parbes 10 gross TL?

Ratio of Non Performing Loans to Related Parttes to Total Loans io Related Parties

Ratio of DOSRI Loans to gross TEP

Rano of Non-Pertorming DOSS Loans to Tota! Loans to DOSRt ### LAQUIDETY “

Liguislity Coverage Ratio “

Net Stable Funsing Ratio *

Minimum Liquidity Ratie * ### PROFITABILITY * :

IetweEn OF kGuty (ROL)

Return on Assets

Ret interest Margin ### CAPITAL ADEQUACY,

Commen Enutty Tier} Ralio

Ter 1 Capital Ratly.

### CAR

Basel lt Leverage Ratio © Deterted Charges not yet Watlen Down

}. List of Financial Allled Subsidiaries texctuding Subsidiary tnsurance Companies) 1

List of Subsidiary Inturance Co! inles 1

Ian» Cost

Account Code

### TOAD OCOCODICI SON. ### IERIOOOMOIOGIS SOS ### FOEZAOTIONOOOT IIIA ### MEQOOTSOOOOGO0C 0 ### IPSEC OOOOCIOCOIN ### TPSTROBIOOOHCOOGO ### TAQNSONICOOGSOOOOOO. ### 1AEHII9TINNIGIONS ### LED RONOIEH OT ### MO2OSSMOIGONIOCT ### ADITTOOIOSOOOOIOOS ### SEBISOOOCOOGOOCTOO ### TROIS OOORIOD ### SISASTLOOOOOSOIOSS ### FESSOIENUONODSOSIO iosissocosancaNeoo ### IES AT SIIOOSIONION ### ISBPDOGSOOOHDOIO Haseoouaccassoves ### TESTSOOBISOAGOOOTS HodSoHOONOODSOOS

### POLIOSSOONIMIONGOS Tissoposooconaadeg 2REAHADHANAIGESs9. ### TIONS. ### ZEARSONSNOSVOOSH ### 27EINOSEIAATAATORO ieeeerenenes

TIOIHOTIONTON Oye BeoTSIONIONTSO0IN ### TMOBVONOG OAS LOCO ### SOUQOOINOIOARIITD.

### ESSOSOGBOOVINQOOOD ### BNEISOQINOOTLY ICID ### MISTS IOMIOOOOSIOND ### PIOGIGOIOOOOUSOIO ### ZESIOSOSOCOOS TOSCO ### SISIMIDIOISIO LSID

### KOGOOOSHSIOOSIOIOS ### ROOSOOIOOSNIIIIA ### SISISOMDONCIOOONHA ### BISOOVOAOOTO OIC RtooKORoSoTIOIOHS ### ABYOTODINNNODGOYY ### BEEIATOCIOIOIONES ### LAL AOOQOOSDTAIOD sssonnosoOIS OSS a9 ### SKDOOOQUOIIONODVGO. ### MINOOOIOROGOIGO

### MMENEOSADISOVIIZO ### KPOTSNODIE ODI ### KOMEZENOODIOLOSOGS. ### FEES SYIOOIOSS SOOO

aptearrannoosNos00 ### SIPS IIOOS ISD GSAr8 SIMIDODOMITDOO ### ARR SUINESIOCO.

### AMPS OEGDOTSILOND ### ABPSEIEOOCIOIIOND ### AIMEE IIOIGIIIIST

### HOWIIDOGOIIND

### Aegsnsncouade gaa:

### ADISSTEE* SOGOCOEID ### LOPES IICCIOO ### KHBSSIOO TOOTS DOD

### SSEBTDOIOINOONONOOD-

### STITOODNEDOOSOO9O ### TOIGDOODSSOUESORNS

### ADHISINONOONNIOSOD

Amount Current Quarter Previous Quarter ### 0. Q 300 bekece] a0 000 iE.) 9.00 GOO CIs) £00) ao0 ### 0.00 O00. o. Seo 9.90 90 ### 000 OY 5.05) Bon coo 0.00 Bo: OSH ### 909 G00 090 200 2.090 6.00 ### 2 O60 a3 0.00 5.09 9.99 200 fekex] ### D3. OS 0.00 9.09 00d 209 kes) 009 ### C.EM B50 ### G. OR: 00! 000 ### 0.00 OOM Goo OOo (Xai) Ook 0.00! 2.00 O90. OGo 9.90! 220 Ch.CA): 2o0 Cre exer ### CI) ooo ### O99 009) oH ### 2 EBOO 805) 9. £.00) 9.09. £.00) 9.50 0.00 9.99 ier) 0.09 2.00) 0980 0.00 0.09 ooo DOD coo 990 9.00 900 ### 9.90 DOO ### 9.00) CES) ooo: GoOR. ooo% O.0o%. D.003% ooo% DODD o00% 9.99% Onoy. ### DOO OM ### CIES 0.09%. ### O.097. ### D.09K ### HO0% OGuE 200% ### OOO 00% go0% BOOK C.Oi. ### GOO% 290% 0.09%. Cog ### O00 0.60

Uo This account is comprised of Financial Assets Held for Trading (HFT) Debt Securities Designated at FVPL, and Other Financial

2 This acccount is comprised of Specific Allowance for Credit Losses and General Loans Lots Provistan. 3/ This accounl is comprised of Financial Liabilities Held for Trading. and Financial Liabilities Designated at FVPL

4/ Only applicable ta Universal and Commercial Banks and their subsidiary banks

5/ Only applicable to Stand alone TBs, RBs and Coop Banks

Page 2 of 2

## Page 7

### PRIMARY REPORTS

A. UBs/KBs'

Form 2B/2B.1 Section 175 (xxx) ### (BSP-7-16-03)

### XXX

Unnumbered Section 175 ixxx}

1As made applicable to Islamic banks and digital banks.

### REPORTS REQUIRED OF BANKS [Appendix 7 of the MORB]

Balance Sheet (BS) Quarterly

Published Balance Sheet (PBS) (Proof of Publication/Posting)

Annual Report Assessment Checklist Annually ### {ARAC)

SOLO -15 banking days after

end of reference quarter

CONSO - 30 banking days after end of reference quarter

35 banking days after end of reference quarter

Non-government banks-180" calendar day after the close of the calendar/fiscal year elected by the bank

Government banks - 100" calendar da

ANNEX B of Circular

### API-XML

Soft copy to the Department of Supervisory Analytics of the Bangko Sentral

Page 1 of &

## Page 8

after the close of the calendar/fiscal year

elected by the bank

Deadline ### [IPRIMABYREPORTS

A-l Form 2B/2B.1 Section 175 (xxx) Balance Sheet {BS} Quarterly SOLO ~ 15 banking API-XML days after end of reference quarter CONSO - 30 banking days after end of reference quarter Published Balance Sheet (PBS) 35 banking days API-XML (Proof of Publication/Posting) after end of reference quarter

- ### SECONDARY REPORTS

Unnumbered Section 175 Annual Report Assessment Checklist Annually Non-government Soft copy to the Department (xxx) {ARAC) banks - 180% of Supervisory Analytics of calendar day after the Bangko Sentral

Page 2 of 4

## Page 9

Form No.

C. RBs/Coop Banks

I lena the close of the

calendar/fiscal year elected by the bank

Government banks - do 100% calendar day after the close of the calendar/fiscal year elected by the bank

### XXX

Section 175 (xxx) Balance Sheet (BS) Quarterly SOLO -15 banking API-XML days after end of reference quarter

CONSO - 30 banking days after end of reference quarter

Published Balance Sheet (PBS) i 35 banking days API-XML (Proof of Publication/Posting) after end of reference quarter

Page 3 of 4

## Page 10

Unnumbered

Section 175

Section 175 (Circular No, 956 dated 04.17.17}

Annual Report of Management to As loan to

Stockholders Covering Results of subsidiaries

Operation for the Previous Year and/or affillates is approved

Annual Report Assessment Checklist Annually ### (ARAC)

Non-government banks - 180" calendar day after the close of the calendar/fiscal year elected by the bank

Government banks - 100* calendar day after the close of the calendar/fiscal year elected by the bank

Original and duplicate- Appropriate supervising department of the Bangko Sentral

Soft copy to the Department of Supervisory Analytics of the Bangko Sentral

Page 4 of & 