# 1187

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1187 Series of 2024

Subject: Philippine Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 193 dated 14 February 2024, approved the adoption of the Philippine Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines (SFTG) for banks.

The Philippine SFTG was developed under the auspices of the Financial Sector Forum (FSF) following the recommendations in the Philippine Sustainable Finance Roadmap released by the Inter-agency Technical Working Group for Sustainable Finance (or the Green Force) in October 2021.

Section 1. Section 153 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB), as amended by Circular Nos. 1128 dated 26 October 2021, and 1149 dated 23 August 2022, is further ### amended as follows:

### “153 SUSTAINABLE FINANCE FRAMEWORK Disclosure Requirements. xxx ### XXX

Philippine Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines (SFTG). The SFTG aligns with the Philippine Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles to advance sustainable finance’ in the country. The SFTG serves as a tool to classify whether an economic activity is environmentally and socially sustainable and guides different stakeholders in making informed investment and financing decisions.

The SFTG aims to direct, accelerate, and increase capital flows to economic activities that promote sustainability objectives, including reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and building climate resilience. It likewise promotes transparency and credibility by minimizing the risk of greenwashing and supports a just transition to a sustainable economy.

Banks shall use the SFTG when extending credit, making investment decisions, or designing sustainable financial products and services, among others. In issuing sustainable bonds, banks shall comply with the regulatory requirements articulated in the relevant sustainable bonds standards or guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While the SEC Guidelines provide lists of eligible green and social project categories, the issuing bank may voluntarily apply the principles under the respective components of the SFTG to assess if such bond issuance is aligned with the Taxonomy. In addition, the considerations for the environmental objectives could provide additional guidance in assessing eligible green projects (e.g., in determining substantial contribution to an environmental objective).

' Please refer to the definition under this Section and as adopted by Section 331 Agriculture, Fisheries, and Rural Development Financing.

Page 1 of 3

## Page 2

Assessment Process. Below are the steps to be undertaken in classifying whether an economic activity is environmentally and socially sustainable, and financing thereofcan ### be labelled as SFTG-aligned:

a. Determine that the activity to be financed is not included in the enumeration of “Excluded Activity” under the SFTG and is compliant with Philippine laws. Unless otherwise specified, an Excluded Activity is not aligned with the SFTG. However, there are certain instances provided in the SFTG wherein excluded activities may be considered as enablers of climate change mitigation or adaptation objectives, and in turn, may be eligible for financing under the Amber classification. Meanwhile, if the activity is illegal under Philippine laws or is in breach of environmental laws and regulations, the subject activity is considered outside of scope of the SFTG.

b. Select the relevant Environmental Objective (EO) of the activity.\n assessing the primary objective of the activity, the following factors may be considered: (i) activity relevance and strategic alignment; (ii) investors/financial institutions’ priority; and (iii) government and industry guidance. Banks shall refer to the guidance on substantial contribution as well as to the guiding questions for climate change mitigation (EO1) and climate change adaptation (EO2) under the SFTG to determine which EO is relevant to the activity being assessed.

c. Assess whether the activity significantly harms the other EO. An activity contributing to one EO should not cause significant harm to another EO. Banks shall refer to the general guiding questions for the Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) to focus assessment on the potential or actual harm to another EO.

d. /fthere is harm, verify that the same has been remediated or will be remediated within the required defined period. \f an activity does cause significant harm to another EO, it is possible that it may still be SFTG-aligned, provided remedial measures to transition (RMT) are taken. Any RMT should be fulfilled within a five (5)-year timeframe without independent verification from the assessment date. If the remediation is longer than five (5) years but not exceeding ten (10) years, this must be supported by an independent external verification lending credibility to the longer RMT timeframe.

The SFTG provides a set of guiding questions and decision trees to support banks’ assessments. In addition, entities undertaking the economic activity should comply, at a minimum, with the Philippine social safeguard requirements.

After the assessment process, economic activities may be classified as Green, Amber or Red, following the definitions under the SFTG. An activity that falls under the Red classification does not imply that the activity is unsustainable. Rather, the subject activity does not meet the higher sustainability ambition of the SFTG or pass the DNSH or minimum social safeguards tests. The activity classified as Red may still be eligible for “unlabeled" financing.

The SFTG offers a simplified approach for the assessment of micro, small and medium enterprises’ (MSMEs) activity for financing. This is to ensure that MSMEs are not unduly excluded from participating in sustainable finance.

The details of the SFTG are provided in Appendix 157.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

Section 2. Observation Period. Banks shall be given until end-December 2024 to deepen understanding and familiarity in applying the Philippine Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines (SFTG). Starting 2025, the Bangko Sentral shall collect information related to the use of the SFTG.

The foregoing provision shall be incorporated as footnote to Section 153 (Philippine Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines) of the MORB.

Section 3. This Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days following its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

we

### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Governor

21 February 2024

Page 3 of 3

## Page 4

Pinaneian Secuiitige onc S ECTOR Commission

### PHILIPPINE ### SUSTAINABLE FINANCE ### TAXONOMY GUIDELINES

### VERSION 1, FEBRUARY 2024

## Page 5

Contents

EX€CULIVE SUMIMATY .........scesscsesesescesseesssessseesecstesesssssueseesaccesssesseseassnseassavsasenssuseasenses 3 GOSSATY. crvsescccssnccongunssieenseacanaennaina thE NSEIR EM Aaaiceodaatnnannanenomnanreunsnencanesrnsnmssurecensuneces 6 1. The Philippine Context for Sustainable Fimance .............ccccccscsecsessseessessecescsecees 9 2. The Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines ...........ccccccscssssessescesseesesseeesens 13 2.1 Definition of Sustainable: Pimance visssscsesssssussssnsscssesssessccrvevesscacccaceseoecencoeners 13 2.2 Purpose of the Sustainable Finance Taxonomy ..............ccccccccsceeseseeeeeeees 14 2.3 Potential Users of the Philippines Sustainable Finance OT GIGS orcssccesnsencorneslinsnxencarrappcocerwecesaimesceciecaccsesuniuiemaunsscenicns 15 2.4 The SFTG Guiding Principles.................ccccccccscccsesssssssssscscsesessssscscsesesevavseeeseees 17 2.4.1 Guidance on Setting the SFTG Environmental Objectives....................... 19 2.4.2 Sector Coverage of the SFTG.............cccccccccsscscscscscsssvsvsssevesescsssvscevavevevavacavaees pa! PRG PROT ROP SG es cccunssocccpsscvevsusussasecwcancisawwiatscnsacinbvengiauiacticcidisisioneassaanenennerenrer 23 Z.4.2b Emabling Sectors ............cccccccccccccssscscescssssscsescsuvsvsvsvevscscsesevavavavavavavacacsavavacavanes 24 3. Assessment of Activities Under the SFTG ...........sccsccsscsssssssssssssscsessesessseeeasenees 26 3.1 The Generic approach to aSS€SSMENE.............cccccccccesecscecsesesescscsesesecseseseseees 26 3.2 Exeladed ACtU vies ss uiisscivcsscstscsssssiessennassehsocsneneenoneoronveeennoentnonenesstneanesverexnuviant 26 33 Compliance With laWS.............cccccccccscesesscsesscscescsecscssssevscsecsevsvsesacsecsesasaucnavaceas 27 3.4 The ‘traffic light’ classification SYSteEM.............ccccccccssscsscesesessseseecscseeeneees 28 3.5 Choosing an Environmental Objective ................0.cccccccccscssseseseseseseseeeteseees 29 3.5.1 Guidance on ‘substantial’ contribution .............0cccccccccssesssssseeseseseseseeees 29 3.6 Using the Decision Tree and Guiding Questions to Assess an Activity .30 3.6.1 Climate Change Mitigation Decision Tree and Guiding Questions (EOL)... ccccccesesesesesecscsescscscsescsvevsvevevevsveusacacateeers 30 3.6.2 Climate Change Adaptation Decision Tree and Guiding Questions (EO2) ..........ccccccccccescssscsscscsesscsesccscssvsvscecsetecsesscsecavscsees 32 3.6.3 Assessment of the Essential Criteria of DNSH, RMT and MSG................. 5

3.6.4 DoNo Significant Harm (DNSH) - Guidance and Guiding Questions ....36

3.6.5 Remedial Measures to Transition - Guidance and Guiding Questions. 38

3.6.6 Minimum Social Safeguards - Guidance............c.c.ccccccscsesessecesesescscscsesesees 40 3.7 External verification and use of Industry Standards ..............ccccccccce 42 3.8 Assessinent of Exposures to. MSMES sisissssssscsssvecsverincanssssssvssesrerarassissvecsasonnne 43 Appendix 1 Non-Exhaustive List of Laws for Minimum Social Safeguards ....... 46

Appendix 2 Compilation of Guiding Questions for EOs and Essential Criteria 48 Appendix 3 Use Cases on Climate Change Mitigation ............0.0.c.cccccccccsseseeeeeeeees 57

## Page 6

Appendix 4 Use Cases on Climate Change Adaptation.................::scseseeeseeeees 64

Appendix 5 - Examples of Industry Standards with Certifications and

VER IPICATIONN: «<<ocsssucavsssazexcacsxecirenenscscunsannaneaccpeosmencunnenamnemssssemmtrnnnnanivinaavenns 69

Appendix 6 Non-exhaustive list of potentially eligible projects or

ACTIVITIES FOL MSMES....nnccesenssenievnreveenensnnsneeeesononnnna saassdsuuiiannsuvansusamsdesounyponneasee’s 76

Figures

### Figure 1: ### Figure 2: ### Figure 3: ### Figure 4: ### Figure 5: ### Figure 6: ### Figure 7:

### Figure 8:

### Figure 9:

Climate Risk Dimensions and Impact on Financial Markets

Observed Poverty Reduction, GDP Growth and GHG Emissions Growth NDC Alignment to National Development Plans

Total Philippines GHG Emissions by Sector 1990-2020

Expected Growth of Emissions in the Philippines

Total Final Consumption of Energy by Sector, Philippines 1990-2020 The E01 Climate Change Mitigation Decision Tree - EO1 Decision Tree Assessment for Classification of Activity

The EO2 Climate Change Adaptation Decision Tree - EO2 Decision Tree Assessment for Classification of Activity

The logic flow and decision-tree diagram for assessing essential criteria (excerpt from Figure 8)

Figure 10: Decision Tree for Assessing MSME Activity

Tables

### Table 1: ### Table 2: ### Table 3: ### Table 4: ### Table 5: ### Table 6: ### Table 7: ### Table 8: ### Table 9:

### Table 10: ### Table 11: ### Table 12:

Sources of Financing for the LCCR Transition

The Philippine Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles

Target Users and Potential Uses of the SFTG

SFTG Objectives - Existing and Future Objectives

Summary of Classification of Activities for SFTG

Choosing an Environmental Objective

Guiding Questions for EO1 Climate Change Mitigation -1A and 1B Guiding Questions for EO2 Climate Change Adaptation Guiding details to the decision box in the flow diagram General Guiding Questions for DNSH

Environmental Objective Specific Guiding Questions for DNSH Guiding Questions for RMT

## Page 7

Executive Summary

The Philippines is in the Circum-Pacific Belt (the “Ring of Fire”) and has high exposure to natural hazards (typhoons, landslides, floods, droughts, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions), strong dependence on a climate-sensitive agricultural sector, and vast coastlines where all major cities and most of the population reside. The Philippines also lies in the world’s most cyclone-prone region. The disruptive effects of climate-related disasters have the potential to adversely affect production and the economy more broadly and likewise can be a potent threat to the stability of the Philippine’s financial sector. Yet the Philippines has made considerable progress towards realizing its vision of becoming an upper middle-income country by 2040. With strong gross domestic product (GDP) growth and significantly reduced poverty levels, however, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have also grown. This may persist if robust climate ambitions and actions are not aligned.

The Philippines has set out key policy responses to deal with the effects of climate change and commits under the Paris Agreement to reducing projected cumulative greenhouse gas emissions by 75 percent from a business-as-usual scenario, of which 2.71 percent is unconditional and 72.29 percent is conditional on international support. While the Philippines’ share of global GHG emissions is less than 0.5 percent! as of 2021, it recognizes its international commitments under the Paris Agreement to reduce GHG emissions, and the opportunities of GHG mitigation for sustainable development and co-benefits including pollution prevention. It demonstrates the country’s responsibility in addressing common threads as Philippines may be highly vulnerable to the impact of climate change.

The case for the more ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) is manifested out of the country’s climate-related vulnerability and the continued loss and damage from extreme weather events - reaching 4 percent of GDP in 2013 (due to Super Typhoon Haiyan) whilst successive typhoons in October and November 2020 alone resulted in approximately USD 852 million in losses and damages in agriculture and infrastructure. In the energy sector, Super Typhoon Goni alone destroyed USD 56.3 million worth of infrastructure in the country’s 25 provinces. Noting the increasing difficulty for fast and timely recovery, it is apparent that the financial impacts of these climate events are outstripping the country’s capacity to withstand climate shocks.

Given this, the country’s action to reduce emissions helps to safeguard Philippines from the harsh effect of climate change and strengthen its ability to handle these challenges.

The scale of financing needed to meet Philippines’ climate goals is colossal, with an

### 1 See Our World in Data Philippines GHG emissions (https:

## Page 8

estimated USD 168 billion in green investment opportunities between 2020 and 2030. Climate investments between 2017 and 2021 account for only 1 percent of total cross border investment, substantially below its regional peers. Whilst seeking greater access to external alternative sources is important, it is also a strategic imperative to expand Philippines’ domestic financial sector’s capacity to support and accelerate the Low Carbon and Climate Resilient (LCCR) transition, which will require multiple sources of finance.

To address the various climate related challenges and financial risks and opportunities facing the Philippines, the financial sector regulatory authorities, including Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (‘BSP’), the Insurance Commission (‘IC’) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’), under the auspices of the Financial Sector Forum? (FSF) is setting up an extensive engagement on greening the financial sector in the Philippines. The overall objective of the program is to advance the financial sector’s understanding and management of climate-related risks, while also growing sustainable finance opportunities. A key component focuses on supporting efforts to develop a sustainable finance taxonomy for the financial sector with a view to mobilizing and scaling sustainable finance and would be significantly informed by the Philippines Sustainable Finance Roadmap and Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles.

A sustainable finance taxonomy is a tool to classify whether an economic activity is environmentally and socially sustainable. Once classified, a taxonomy can act as a guide for a variety of users, including companies, investors, financial institutions, regulators, and consumers, to help them make an informed decision to originate, invest, finance, purchase or monitor an asset, product, project, activity, company, or portfolio. In turn, with appropriate supporting policies and incentives, financial flows can be increased and redirected towards environmentally and socially sustainable objectives. A taxonomy likewise promotes transparency and credibility by minimizing the risk of greenwashing and supports a just transition to a sustainable economy.

The FSF has developed these Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines (SFTG) extensively drawing on version 2 of the ASEAN Taxonomy’s Foundation Framework, adopting as a first phase a ‘principles-based’ approach to determining whether an activity aligns with the SFTG, with variations to account for national circumstances. The SFTG will initially focus on the objectives of climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation, with a view to adding ecosystems and biodiversity and circular economy, as well as potential social objectives in future iterations. Other environmental and social factors are considered through additional

2 This is a voluntary inter-agency body comprised of the BSP, SEC, IC, and the Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation (PDIC).

## Page 9

screening based on the ‘do no significant harm’ principle, and minimum social safeguards, appropriate to the Philippines context.

Certain activities are excluded from alignment with the SFTG, following existing Philippine sustainability frameworks. This does not mean that they are unable to be financed, nor does it mean that they are inherently ‘unsustainable’. Rather they reflect the fact that a ‘substantial’ contribution to an objective requires a certain level of ambition and that certain activities are already recognized as inappropriate for a label implying sustainability.

A traffic light approach has also been used to reflect an ‘Amber’ or transition category and a set of guiding questions and decision trees have been included to support users of the taxonomy as they undertake a screen of their activities’ compliance with the SFTG. A separate user guide will contain use cases.

Particular focus has been given to the significant role of MSMEs in the Philippines economy adopting a risk-based/proportionate approach to alignment for MSME’s. This is to ensure that MSME’s are not unduly excluded from participating in sustainable finance.

## Page 10

Glossary

Adaptation

Assessor Assessment

Carbon capture The capture of carbon dioxide (CO2) from large point sources, and Storage (CCUS) I such as power generation or industrial facilities. If not being used on-site, the CO2 is compressed and transported to be used in a range of applications or injected into deep geological formations.

An Activity takes place when resources such as capital, goods, labor, manufacturing techniques or intermediary products are combined to produce specific goods or services. It is characterized by an input of resources, a production process, and an output of products (goods or services). For the purposes of assessment, an Activity may be defined as an expansion or significant upgrade of an existing Activity.

This refers to the adjustment in natural or human systems in response to actual or expected climatic stimuli or their effects, which moderates harm or exploits beneficial opportunities.

This refers to a person or organization which assesses an activity and assigns a classification based on the Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines (SFTG).

This refers to the process by which the applicability of classification of an Activity is determined.

Carbon lock-in occurs when transitioning to cleaner and more sustainable energy sources is rendered more difficult due to the existing infrastructure and economic systems being built around the use of carbon-based fuels.

Carbon Lock-in

This refers to resources that have been allocated or may be utilized towards the climate change adaptation and mitigation requirements of the country and its vulnerable communities (Climate Change Act of 2009, as amended by Republic Act No. 10174),

Company This means the organization seeking classification of an Activity.

Climate Finance

## Page 11

Do No Significant This refers to the principle that an activity which makes a Harm (DNSH) substantial contribution to one of the official Environmental Objectives selected for this taxonomy should not cause significant harm to any of the other Environmental Objectives.

Environmental Impact Assessment Environmental Objectives (EO)

A comprehensive document of a project’s environmental and social risks and impacts according to Philippine law.

This initially comprises Climate Change Mitigation and Climate Change Adaptation. This forms part of the assessment of an activity under the SFTG.

This comprises Do No Significant Harm (DNSH), Remedial Measures to Transition (RMT) and Minimum Social Safeguards (MSS). Similarly, the EC is considered in the assessment of an activity under the SFTG.

Essential Criteria ### (EC)

Within the context of climate change, this refers to human intervention to reduce anthropogenic emissions sources and enhance removals by sinks of all GHG, including- ozone- depleting substances and their substitutes.

Mitigation

The MSMEs are defined in two ways in the Philippines - by employment size and by asset size, either of which may be applied in the SFTG.

Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs)

The Philippines Statistical Authority classifies an enterprise as a micro if it has less than 10 employees; small if it has 10-99 employees; medium with 100-199 employees; and large if it has 200 or more employees.

The Magna Carta for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (as amended to 2008) classifies an enterprise as micro if it has up to Php 3,000,000 asset size; small if it has Php 3,000,001- 15,000,000 asset size; medium if it has Php 15,000,0001- 100,000,000 asset size; and large if it has Php 100,000,001 and above asset size.

The social standards aim to ensure that the entities doing the activities comply with national regulatory requirements. This assessment is typically done at the company level as opposed to the activity level. Applying this principle ensures that the

Minimum Social Safeguards (MSS)

## Page 12

Remedial Measures to Transition (RMT)

Substantial Contribution

activity achieving an Environmental Objective is not done while harming a social aspect.

This refers to the measures that must be undertaken to remove or render insignificant any actual or potential significant harm to an Environmental Objective. In this SFTG, particular time periods can be allocated for an activity to be aligned.

The level of contribution required by an activity towards an Environmental Objective to qualify as Green or Amber, provided other Essential Criteria are met.

Sustainable Finance

This refers to any form of financial product or service which integrates environmental, social and governance criteria into business decisions that support economic growth and provide lasting benefit for both clients and society while reducing pressures on the environment. Sustainable finance includes, as a subset, green finance which is designed to facilitate the flow of funds towards green economic activities and climate change mitigation and adaptation projects.

Certain definitions have been borrowed from and adapted from the ASEAN Taxonomy

Version 2.

## Page 13

The Philippine Context for Sustainable Finance

The increasing adverse impacts of climate change in the Philippines could potentially be a potent threat to the stability of the financial sector. Most concerning is the prospects of the sector’s high vulnerability to climate-related risks - both physical and transition risks. The country is in the Circum-Pacific Belt (the “Ring of Fire”) and has high exposure to natural hazards (typhoons, landslides, floods, droughts, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions), strong dependence on a climate-sensitive agricultural sector, and vast coastlines where all major cities and most of the population reside. The Philippines also lies in the world’s most cyclone-prone region. The disruptive effects of climate-related disasters have the potential to adversely affect production and the economy more broadly.

Climate-related risks are thus highly material for the financial sector as climate-related disasters can affect and in fact are already affecting - credit, market, operational and underwriter risks, threatening the profitability and solvency of banks and insurers (Figure 1). In addition, Philippine banks are exposed to shocks as the economy adjusts to a low carbon environment through their holdings in polluting and carbon-intensive industries. For example, the banking sector’s loan exposure to power generation is at 10% of the total loan portfolio. Transition risks also affects several other financial institutions, including insurance providers exposed to polluting and carbon-intensive assets, investment businesses that own shares of high carbon emission producers, pension funds investing in high carbon emission properties and assets, as well as reinsurance firms that offer protection against climate- related disaster. In the short run these exposures pose increasing reputational risks, while over the longer run these assets run the risk of becoming stranded and increasingly pose threats to financial stability.

## Page 14

Figure 1- Climate Risk Dimensions and Impact on Financial Markets

Physical Risks Transition Risks (Extreme weather events and gradual changes in dimate) (Policy, technology, consumer preferences)

Business Asset Migration Reconstruction Lowervalueof Incease in energy Economy disruption destruction replacement stranded assets prices with dislocations

Lower growth and productivity Negative affecting financial conditions feedback from tighter financial

conditions

Financial Credit losses Operational risk system 5 (residential and (induding liability corporate loans) risk)

Source: Climate Change and Financial Risk, Pierpaolo Grippa, Jochen Schmittman, and Felix Suntheim (Finance & Development, December 2019)

In the meantime, the Philippines has made considerable progress towards realizing its vision of becoming an upper-middle-income country by 2040. High growth and job creation, together with increased public spending on education and health, helped millions of Filipinos lift themselves out of poverty, with poverty falling an average of 1.2 percentage points per year between 2010 and 2019. Although many challenges remain, including high inequality and low human capital development, the Philippines seems to be on an upward path, and is poised to graduate to upper middle-income status and achieve its objective to become a prosperous middle-income country free of poverty by 2040 (AmBisyon Natin 2040). With the strong GDP growth and significantly reduced poverty levels, however, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have also grown (Figure 2).

Figure 2 - Observed Poverty Reduction, GDP growth and GHG Emissions Growth

Poverty (USD3.20/day)

~ Extreme poverty (USD1.90/day)

2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 20:6 Source: Based on data from the WD! database; poverty lines use 2011 purchasing power parity exchange rates.

10

Percent of paputtinr

## Page 15

e Recognizing climate change as one the biggest global challenges and the efforts required to deal with global warming and its adverse impact, the Government of the Philippines has set out policy responses in its key national strategic documents (Figure 3). While the Philippines’ share of global GHG emissions is less than 0.5 percent as of 2021, it recognizes its international commitments under the Paris Agreement to reduce GHG emissions, as well as the opportunities of GHG mitigation for sustainable development and co-benefits including pollution prevention. It demonstrates the country’s responsibility in addressing common threats as the Philippines may be highly vulnerable to the impact of climate change. The country’s action to reduce emissions helps to safeguard Philippines from the harsh effects of climate change and strengthen its ability to handle these challenges. For example, the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) committed under the COP Paris Agreement considers the Philippine Development Plan (2017-2022), Philippine Energy Plan (2018 - 2040), National Security Policy (2017-2022), National Climate Risk Management Framework (2019) and the Sustainable Finance Framework (2020). The Philippines NDC outlines its desire to reduce and avoid GHG emissions by 75 percent by 2030 (with 72.29 percent conditional). The conditional NDC target could potentially open up new strategies and opportunities to improve and scale sustainable finance within the financial sector.

Figure 3: NDC Alignment to National Development Plans

Climate Philiopi Philippine Philippine National Change Act MIPPIne Development National ; Renewable of 2009, as Energy Plan Plan Security Energy amended in AN ee ene 2023-2028 Ss Policy SS, Program 4 © 2012 “3 y 4 2023-2028 2020-2040 4 — be . * National oe _@ _ National National a National Garmmcats Sustainable @ Disaster Risk Climate Framework Management Finance Reduction and Change Strategy on Framework Policy Management Action Plan Climate of 2019 Framework Plan 2011-2028 Change of 2020 2011-2028 2010-2022 e Additionally, in 2016, the Philippines passed the Green Jobs Act to promote

sustainable growth, create decent jobs and build resilience against climate change through incentives to businesses generating green jobs. Equally, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources of the Philippines is pursuing sustainable management and development of the environment by creating green jobs for the blue and green economy.3

° Commitments to act are not enough. They must be underpinned by seeking avenues to bridge the financing gaps. Climate finance calls for the mobilization of funds from public, private, national, and transnational

3 DENR October 12, 2022 11

## Page 16

sources to support mitigation and adaptation actions that will address climate change. Globally, data suggests the estimated global gap for adaptation is large and widening. The adaptation finance gap is widening and now stands at between USD194 billion and USD366 billion per year. In developing countries alone, adaptation costs are expected to rise to up to US$340 billion a year by 2030, and up to US$565 billion by 2050. The gap for mitigation is even larger, at US$850 billion per year by 20304.

° The scale of financing needed to meet the Philippines’ climate goals is colossal and it calls for the financial sector to rapidly expand its capacity to support financing the low-carbon and climate-resilient (LCCR) transition, above the Government’s own fiscal allocation and spending. For example, from 2016 to 2022, PhP2.01 trillion (US$35.95 billion) has been tagged as climate budget by national government agencies using the Climate Change Expenditure Tagging (CCET) Framework, which represents 5.8 percent of the total appropriations during the same period, with more than 90 percent towards building climate resilience to adapt and mitigate the adverse impact from extreme, intense, and frequent weather events. There is an estimated USD 168 billion in green investment opportunities between 2020 and 2030, including USD 39 billion for greening existing and future energy infrastructure, USD 104 billion for climate- smart cities and USD 25 billion for accelerating the green transition in selected sectors. However, the Philippines only attracted USD 0.6 billion in green investment from foreign companies between 2017 and 2021, mostly in renewable energy. Climate investments between 2017 and 2021 account for only 1 percent of total cross border investment, substantially below its regional peers’. Whilst seeking greater access to external alternative sources is important, it is also a strategic imperative to expand Philippines’ domestic financial sector’s capacity to support and accelerate the LCCR transition, which will require multiple sources of finance, noted in Table 1 below.

Table 1: Sources of Financing for the LCCR Transition

Adaptation Mitigation Fiscal Climate-informed public finance Environmental tax reforms Finance Green finance Concessional finance supporting

Disaster risk finance (including insurance) mitigation measures Private sector Technology transfer

Source: World Bank Group, Philippines Climate Change and Development Report, 2022

5 WBG Philippines CCDR 2022 and istornational Finance Corporation (IFC) 2021. Ctrl-Alt-Delete: A Green Reboot for Emerging Markets. Washington: IFC.

12

## Page 17

Z. The Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines

° To address the various climate related challenges and financial risks and opportunities outlined above, the financial sector regulatory authorities (including Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (‘BSP’), the Insurance Commission (‘IC’) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) under the auspices of the Financial Sector Forum® (FSF) pursued extensive stakeholder engagement on greening the financial sector in the Philippines. The overall objective of the program is to advance the financial sector’s understanding and management of climate-related risks, while also growing sustainable finance opportunities. A key component focuses on supporting the efforts of financial sector regulatory authorities, government agencies as well as financial sector participants (such as financial institutions, insurance companies, bond issuers, broker-dealers, portfolio managers and investment houses) on developing a sustainable finance taxonomy for the financial sector to mobilize sustainable finance.

2.1 Definition of Sustainable Finance

° Under Philippine Law, sustainable finance refers to any form of financial product or service which integrates environmental, social and governance criteria into business decisions that support economic growth and provide lasting benefit for both clients and society while reducing pressures on the environment. Sustainable finance includes, as a subset, green finance which is designed to facilitate the flow of funds towards green economic activities and climate change mitigation and adaptation projects. Climate finance, in turn, refers to resources that have been allocated or may be utilized towards the climate change adaptation and mitigation requirements of the country and its vulnerable communities.”

° This is consistent with other definitions, such as those used by the World Bank Group: Sustainable Finance means practices by financial institutions and other financial sector participants that reduce and manage environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks resulting from or affecting financial sector activities, including climate change risks, and that encourage the flow of capital to assets, projects, sectors, and businesses that have environmental and social benefits, including climate change mitigation and adaptation’,

6 This is an inter-agency voluntary body comprised of the BSP, SEC, IC and the PDIC.

7 Republic Act No. 9729, otherwise known as the “Climate Change Act of 2009”, as amended by Republic Act No. 10174

8 a Back Group IMF. MF, and LOECD, 2023. Ac i i

b403332. pdf

## Page 18

° The European Commission also defines sustainable finance as the process of taking ESG considerations into account when making investment decisions in the financial sector, leading to more long-term investments in sustainable economic activities and projects.?

2.2 Purpose of the Sustainable Finance Taxonomy

° The Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines (SFTG) align with the Philippine Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles to advance sustainable finance in the country. In 2021, the Philippines Sustainable Finance Roadmap’? was introduced to give direction to and promote sustainable finance in the Philippines. It intends to give financial institutions, regulators, and other stakeholders a framework for incorporating ESG factors into their corporate plans and daily operations. In this regard, the Philippines Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles were developed (Table 2) to establish a common understanding at a high-level as to what constitutes a ‘sustainable’ economic activity. The SFTG takes a step further and outlines a more detailed method of assessing activities.

° The SFTG serves as a tool to classify whether an economic activity is environmentally and socially sustainable and guides different stakeholders in making informed investment or financing decisions.

° The SFTG aims to direct and increase capital flows to economic activities that further sustainability objectives, including GHG emission reduction and building climate resilience. This likewise promotes transparency and credibility by minimizing the risk of greenwashing and supports a just transition to a sustainable economy.

Table 2: The Philippine Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles

Guiding Principle 1: Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation

Guiding Principle 2: Promoting Transition to a Low Carbon Economy Guiding Principle 3: Resilient Food Systems Guiding Principle 4: Sustainable Cities

Guiding Principle 5: Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure for Inclusive

https://finance.ec.europa.eu/sustainable-

finance/overview-sustainable-finance en 10 The Philippine Sustainable Finance Roadmap, map.pdf

## Page 19

2.3

Potential Users of the Philippines Sustainable Finance Taxonomy Guidelines

Whilst the taxonomy is a guide primarily for participants of the financial sector and its regulators, there are however a range of other potential users.

Table 3: Target Users and Potential Uses of the SFTG

Policy makers/ e Identify relevant and additional areas where to focus

government investment to accelerate the achievement of objectives of the taxonomy.

e Facilitate the development of a pipeline of sustainable projects in accordance with national priorities for sustainable development.

e Serve as reference for policymakers as they develop strategies to achieve national climate change commitments, such as those in the country’s NDC targets and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) agenda and improve associated systems for tracking and measuring

finance flows.

Help with the sustainable development of the financial

### sector by:

e Supporting regulatory interventions (e.g., incentives, guidance, and capacity building, etc.) based on the guiding principles to encourage banks to lend to taxonomy-aligned projects or economic activities, and insurance companies to issue eligible products as well as invest in assets and activities aligned with the taxonomy.

e Assisting in the development of new climate- or sustainability-related reporting or disclosure guidelines for financial market actors or enhancing existing ones.

e Gauging financial flows toward taxonomy priorities at the transaction-level, investment and lending portfolio, institutional, and national levels.

e Protecting reputation of the financial sector/institution by preventing “green washing”.

e Informing future supervisory actions and expectations

from regulated entities in relation to climate and

sustainability-related risk management

Financial Regulators

Banks, Insurance Companies, and other financial institutions

Create, structure, track, and label taxonomy-eligible sustainable financial products (such as loans, pooled fund/investments, insurance and guarantees) more easily.

15

## Page 20

### POTENTIAL USES

e Develop inclusive financial solutions such as instalment plans to pay electric services for off-grid solar systems, weather/livestock index insurance, financing high-value crop diversification by small farmers, financing weather proofing homes etc.

e Support sustainable financing and investment decisions (e.g., asset acquisition, project financing, lending, and insurance activities).

e Understand and disclose exposure to sustainable investments, insurance (e.g., underwriting) and lending, as well as other exposures, as required by regulators.

### TARGET USERS

e Evaluate existing products or exposure of banks, insurance companies and/or other financial institutions (e.g., reorienting capital flows, increasing transparency and supporting risk management ina more holistic way).

Identify opportunities that comply with sustainability

criteria for high-impact investments.

e Disclose exposure to sustainable investments through

Investors/providers of capital

reporting, as required by regulators.

Identify eligible activities that can contribute to the taxonomy objectives.

e Plan and design new projects and activities to be taxonomy’ aligned, moving toward business transitioning.

Create, structure and label green/sustainable bond.

Green/sustainability bond issuers and other relevant users, such as certifiers and verifiers

Non-financial institutions (MSME and large

enterprises)

Enable companies to translate taxonomy objectives into tangible business strategies.

e Secure new _ business opportunities with larger companies that are required to comply and disclose on taxonomy alignment and specific metrics.

e Where a taxonomy is linked with sustainability-related disclosure requirements, large enterprises and MSMEs can communicate the degree of performance of their economic activities to financial institutions, stakeholders, and other non-financial institutions in relation to their sustainability objectives.

e Compile disclosures against the taxonomy objectives regarding capital expenditure, operational expenditure, and turnover. These are business activity indicators that could be used to determine, report, and disclose the degree of taxonomy alignment.

e Promote financing to MSMEs for adaptation and resilience.

e Use as support based on being taxonomically and

thematically aligned.

16

## Page 21

2.4

(a)

### TARGET USERS

Depositors

### POTENTIAL USES

e Depositors, in particular those driven by Environmental and Social concerns have the potential to become a significant source or retail finance for banks. A taxonomy can enable banks to credibly market ‘taxonomy aligned’ deposit products, which can then be intermediated into green lending products.

The SFTG Guiding Principles

The SFTG follows several key principles, including adopting a phased approach, being designed for inclusivity, relates to key government policies and regional frameworks, and takes into account the transition towards a low-carbon, climate resilient economy.

A Phased Approach

The Philippines has begun a comprehensive approach to building a Sustainable Finance Taxonomy in response to the growing demand from market participants for standardization and direction in recognizing sustainable investment assets and qualified economic activities.

The SFTG involves a sector-specific approach to provide more targeted criteria for assessing the sustainability of economic activities. The alignment of the SFTG with the country’s NDC sectors focuses financial efforts on addressing climate change. It aligns with national policies, supports risk management, facilitates green investments, promotes transparency, and encourages collaboration.

Acknowledging the dynamic nature and complexity of identifying sustainable finance activities, the Philippines has implemented a phased approach to guarantee the effective, iterative, cooperative, and user-focused development of the taxonomy. This allows for assessors to qualitatively analyse alignment with the SFTG through guiding questions and decision trees. External assurance of alignment at this phase of the taxonomy is not mandatory.

This methodology is an essential first step toward an activity-based approach backed by comprehensive "Technical Screening Criteria" and appropriate thresholds in line with science-based evidence and domestic policies. They should reflect the plans, priorities, and activities of the government to achieve its climate-and-sustainability-related commitments. This phased approach gives users the time they need to modify their internal procedures. The SFTG intends to promote transparency and credibility by minimizing the risks associated with

17

## Page 22

(b)

(c)

(d)

greenwashing, encourage comparability, direct financing towards taxonomy- aligned initiatives, and ease the shift of economic activity towards sustainability.

Inclusive and Practical Qualitative Framework

The SFTG is designed to be inclusive, offering direction and clarity for the financial sector and other potential users when it comes to recognizing and categorizing sustainable finance and investment activities. Because of this inclusive approach, the taxonomy may be continuously tested, adjusted, and improved upon to better suit the changing demands of its users.

The SFTG incorporates decision trees, guiding questions, and use cases to simplify the process for users when qualitatively assessing activities against the taxonomy’s objectives and essential criteria.

Reference to Key Documents

The SFTG references other widely used taxonomies, as appropriate and key Philippine national strategic documents. These include the Philippine Development Plan (Ambisyon 2040), NDCs, the Republic of Philippines Sustainable Finance Framework, National Strategy for Financial Inclusion, the Green Jobs and SIPP/CREATE policies and Philippine Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles. It serves as an overarching guide for the financial sector and its stakeholders to operationalize the Philippine Sustainable Finance Roadmap and the Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles issued by the members of the Philippines Inter-Agency Technical Working Group for Sustainable Finance (ITSF or the ‘Green Force’).

Greater Transparency and Accountability

Taxonomies need be linked to policies and regulatory measures that shape sustainable business conduct and practices and encourage capital flow redirection, such as disclosure regimes and policy/fiscal incentives so that they both shape sustainable business conduct and support re-orienting capital flows.

The SFTG is a cornerstone for the country's transition to a stronger and more sustainable economy. It provides a thorough manual for businesses, investors, and financial institutions, supporting moral and ethical behavior while being in line with the nation's sustainable development goals. One of the main objectives is encouraging accountability and transparency in sustainable finance. It helps distinguish between economic activities that have positive, neutral, or negative effects on the environment and society by offering classifications and criteria for identifying sustainable economic activity.

18

## Page 23

(e)

2.4.1

Transition Activities and Market Growth

The taxonomy includes ‘transition’ activities, recognizing allocation of funds to initiatives actively transitioning from high carbon emission to more climate resilient alternatives. It stimulates market growth and innovation in sustainable finance, promoting the financing of goods and services that support sustainable development. by offering a framework for recognizing and assessing the environmental and social effect of financial activities. Thematic bonds (such as green and sustainability bonds), green lending, green investment funds and other sustainable financial products draw funding for initiatives with positive social and environmental impacts.

Guidance on Setting the SFTG Environmental Objectives

Selection of Philippines’ environmental objectives considers national objectives, policies and priorities, the capacity of future taxonomy users to adapt their processes, and the progress of regional and other leading taxonomy developments.

Table 4: SFTG Objectives - Existing and Future Objectives SFTG Environmental Objectives SFTG Future Environmental Objectives Protection of healthy ecosystems and biodiversity Promotion of resource resilience and transition to circular economy

Climate change mitigation

Climate change adaptation

Given the above, the SFTG objectives will initially focus on climate change, namely climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation as the Environmental Objectives. An activity should therefore have either a climate change mitigation of climate change adaptation focus (or both) to qualify for assessment under this version of the SFTG.

Future iterations will address ecosystems and biodiversity and the circular economy, as well as a potential social component. Other environmental and social factors are considered through additional screening based on the DNSH principle, and MSS, appropriate to the Philippines context.

The taxonomy guidelines recognize the transition pathway of the Philippines in

which certain carbon-intensive activities may continue but be adjusted to meet the 2030 target of 75 percent GHG emissions reduction.

### 1S

## Page 24

° The National Framework Strategy on Climate Change 2010-2022 (NFSCC) considered mitigation an opportunity to capitalize on the country’s GHG mitigation potential,11 supported by laws like the Renewable Energy Act (REA) while providing development co-benefits, including pollution prevention. The National Climate Change Action Plan 2011-2028 (NCCAP) envisions that public financing will prioritize adaptation to reduce community vulnerability and risks while encouraging private sector participation to optimize mitigation opportunities for sustainable development.

e Philippines government policies likewise emphasize adaptation, with mitigation actions to be pursued largely as a function of adaptation. The NFSCC sets a risk-based framework for national and sub-national climate policies to build (a) the adaptive capacity of communities and increase the resilience of natural ecosystems to climate change and (b) optimize mitigation opportunities toward sustainable development.

° The Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) during the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations (UN) Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) presented highlights of the National Adaptation Plan (NAP) and the Nationally Determined Contribution Implementation Plan ### (NDCIP) to various stakeholders during the panel discussion, “Turning the Tide: The Philippines’ Journey to Climate Resilience”. While still pending finalization, the initiatives outline the country’s pathways towards resilience and mitigation, entailing an intensely focused and accelerated multi-stakeholder process that different departments of the government and various stakeholders are participating in. 12

° The Environmental Objectives of climate change mitigation and adaptation would define the types of economic sectors and activities that can support the transition to a low emission and climate-resilient economy. For the Philippines, the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy would consider the evolution of the entire system, including national policies and regional initiatives.

11 Philippines emits an average of 1.98 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per capita (2020 figures) which is far below the I Hepa average (4 _ metric tons sail capita), Philippines NDC 2021, St It/fil i 20-%20NDC.pdf. Nevertheless, it has

committed to take the following steps under its NDC: a crojeeted GHG emissions reduction and avoidance of 75 percent, of which 2.71 percent is unconditional and 72.29 percent is conditional, representing the country’s ambition for GHG mitigation for the period 2020 to 2030 for the sectors of agriculture, waste, industry, transport, and energy.

20

## Page 25

2.4.2 Sector Coverage of the SFTG

° GHG emissions in the Philippines are low but growing as the economy expands. Energy and transport are expected to account for most of the growth in Philippine emissions (Figure 5 below). According to the World Bank Group Country Climate and Development Report (CCDR) for the Philippines, in 2018, total emissions accounted for about 0.8 percent of regional emissions in East Asia and 0.3 percent of the world's total. As of 2020, Philippines emitted an average of 1.98 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per capita, below the global average (4 metric tons per capita)!3. GHG emissions rose from 90 megatonnes (Mt) in 1990 to 227 Mt in 2020 and are expected to continue growing". However, the carbon intensity of emissions growth has been low and decreasing compared to peers.!5

° The energy sector accounts for 56 percent of total GHG emissions, while agriculture is the second largest source, accounting for 27 percent of emissions (Figure 6). Transport is the biggest fossil fuel-consuming sector and the largest source of urban air pollution. The overall share of fossil fuels in the primary energy supply increased from 60 percent in 2010 to 67 percent in 2019 due to the rapid growth of coal-fired power generation and sustained growth in oil demand from transport. Total final consumption for transport has significantly reduced in 2020, making residential the top sector for energy consumption (Figure 8). The total primary energy supply is expected to triple to 156 million tonnes of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2040, compared with 56 Mtoe in 2020. The country’s per capita emissions (2.2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent or MtCO2e) are among the lowest in East Asia, below those of Indonesia (3.7 tCO2), Vietnam (4.7 tCO2), and China (9 tCO2).16

13 Philippines NDC 2021, https: t 112027 ilippi

14 As of 2021, the Philippines is the world’ s 38 largest emitter of GHG, Reprasentifie 0. 48 percent of the global total, with per capita emissions at 1.27 tons of CO2 equivalent; well Saleen —~s ene average (6.9 tCO2e). See Our World in Data Philippines GHG emissions (https: ata.

15 World Bank Group, Philippines Country Climate and Development Report, November 2022.

16 World Bank Group, Philippines Country Climate and Development Report, November 2022.

21

## Page 26

Figure 4: Total Philippines GHG Emissions by Sector 1990-20201”

GHG Emissions and Emissions Targets in CLIMATEWATCH Philippines

Data source. Climate Watch

227.52Mt

2010 2014 2022

2020 2024 + 2022 2023 2024 «2025 «#42026 2027 «2028 2029 2030 Source: Philippines NOC.

22

## Page 27

Figure 6: Total Final Consumption of Energy by Sector, Philippines 1990-2020

Total final consumption (TFC) by sector, Philippines 1990-2020

Transport

Residential

Industry >

Commercial and public services

Agriculture / forestry Sct tcntnton sneer

### T 2008

SOURCE: IEA https://www.iea.org/countries/philippines

2.4.2a Priority Sectors

e The SFTG primarily focuses on the sectors used in the Philippine NDCs.

° For the climate change mitigation objective, these sectors reflect the nation's top priorities for lowering GHG emissions and mitigating climate change's effects:18 >» Energy: The energy sector, including electricity generation, accounts for

the largest share of GHG emissions in the Philippines (PSIC Section D).

» Transport: The transport sector, including road transport, aviation, and shipping, is the second-largest source of GHG emissions in the Philippines. (PSIC Section H).

» Waste: The management of solid waste, including landfill sites and waste incineration, is a significant source of GHG emissions in the Philippines. (PSIC Section E).

» Industry: The industrial sector, including manufacturing (PSIC Section C), construction (PSIC Section F), and mining (PSIC Section B), is a significant source of GHG emissions in the Philippines.

>» Agriculture, Forestry, and Other Land Use (AFOLU): This sector

includes emissions from agricultural activities, such as livestock and rice production, as well as emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (PSIC Section A).

18 Philippines’ NDC 2017

23

## Page 28

> Coastal and Marine Resources: This sector includes emissions from coastal and marine ecosystems, such as mangroves and seagrasses, which can release carbon when they are degraded or destroyed.

° The selection of these sectors shows the Philippines’ commitment to reducing GHG emissions in all sectors of the economy, as well as its focus on adaptation and resilience-building measures to address the impacts of climate change. The NDC also recognizes the important role of cross-cutting issues, such as gender, indigenous peoples, and poverty reduction, in achieving sustainable and climate- resilient development in the Philippines. Risks to these social aspects would be mitigated through the proposed adoption of minimum social safeguards as provided in Section 3.6.6.

° In addition, although some sectors were not highlighted in the Philippine NDC using GHG emission and economic data, several ‘enabling’ sectors considered crucial for climate change mitigation and adaptation are included in this SFTG.

° For the climate change adaptation objective, it is not proposed that specific sectors be prioritised, though taking into account the Philippine adaptation plan, and the findings of the World Bank CCDR, particular attention could be given to ### anaes of adaptation activities in support of:

Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Security

Water Resources

Health

Ecosystems and Biodiversity

Cultural Heritage, Population Displacement and Migration

Land Use and Human Settlements

Livelihood and Industries

Energy, Transport and Communications

### VV

### VVVVV WV

2.4.2b Enabling Sectors

° Enabling sectors are those which improve the performance of other sectors and activities and do not themselves risk harm to Environmental Objectives.!9 These sectors are important for the decarbonisation of the economy and might not otherwise be included in the SFTG if only emissions intensity and gross value added are considered:”°

> Information and Communication (ICT): This sector is important for digital transformation and the improvement of efficiency of activities in

19 Taxonomy: Final Report of the Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance (March 2020) 20 ASEAN Taxonomy for Sustainable Finance Version 2

24

## Page 29

emissions-intensive sectors. Activities such as data-driven solutions, resource efficiency software, meteorological solutions for adaptation, and direct mitigation, together with physical infrastructure, such as data centres, are essential for overall decarbonisation and resilience.

Professional, scientific, and technical activities: The activities of this sector are related to the implementation of efficiency measures across sectors, technical studies, research, and capacity building linked to the decarbonisation of the economy. Examples include solar water heater installations, retrofit of buildings, renewable energy installations, and equipment, as well as feasibility studies linked to taxonomy-related activity implementation.

Vv

Carbon capture, utilisation, and storage (CCUS): Activities related to the artificial capture, storage, and transformation of carbon emissions into products are essential for enabling activities in high emission sectors such as manufacturing (e.g., manufacturing of cement and steel) and in the transition of certain sectors (e.g., existing natural gas plants with carbon capture and storage).

Vv

The financial sector is also central to the implementation of the SFTG as they will develop green financial products, frameworks, and services supporting taxonomy aligned activities.

25

## Page 30

3. Assessment of Activities Under the SFTG

° The following section outlines the process of assessing an activity under the ### SFTG.

3.1 The Generic approach to assessment

° The following questions would be asked when assessing an activity.

Is the Activity an Excluded Activity?

is the Activity in compliance with Philippines laws?

Does the Activity substantially contribute to at least one Environmental Objective?

Does the Activity avoid actual/potential harm to the other Environmental Objective?

if there is harm/potential harm, has it been remediated or will it be remediated within the required defined period?

3.2. Excluded Activities

° A user will first assess as part of its due diligence, if an activity is an ‘Excluded Activity’ as adapted from the Republic of Philippines Sustainable Finance Framework?!;

> Exploration, production or transportation of fossil fuel, fossil-fuel power- generation related projects;

> Manufacture and production of finished alcoholic beverages; > Lethal defense goods;

> Military contracting;

> Gambling;

> Weaponry;

> Non-RSPO-certified palm oil;

> Manufacture and production of finished tobacco products;

> Conflict minerals;

> Activities/projects associated with child labor/forced labor;

21 https V. loads /2022/01/Republic-of-Philippines-Sustainable-Finance- Framework-vF-with-disclaimer.pd

26

## Page 31

> Extractive mining; » Production or trade in wood or forestry products other than from sustainably managed forests;

### And, to the extent that DNSH and MSS requirements cannot be complied with:

» Projects involving involuntary resettlement and impact on livelihood (i.e., demolition of residential communities);

» — Projects which would affect ethnic minorities/indigenous people and the lands they own or claim;

» Projects located near any protected areas.

° There are nonetheless certain excluded activities that may be considered enablers of climate change objectives (e.g., extracted minerals critical to the energy transition, renewable energy technologies or energy efficient products). In this instance, a user may consider an assessment under the Amber category, provided the activity meets all decision tree requirements.22

° Unless specified otherwise, an Excluded Activity is not aligned with the SFTG and is considered outside of scope.

3.3. Compliance with laws

° If the activity is illegal under Philippines law, or is in breach of environmental laws and regulations, as referenced in the Philippine Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles, the activity is considered out of scope of the SFTG.

### ° A non-exhaustive list of relevant environmental laws is included here:

Presidential Decree No. 1152 - Philippine Environment Code

Republic Act No. 9275 - Philippine Clean Water Act of 2004

Republic Act No. 8749 - Philippine Clean Air Act of 1999

Republic Act No. 11038 - Enhanced National Integrated Protected Areas

System Act

5. Republic Act No. 9147 - Wildlife Resources Conservation and Protection Act

6. Republic Act No. - 9003 Ecological Solid Waste Management Act of 2000

Te Republic Act No. 6969 - Toxic Substances, Hazardous and Nuclear Waste Control Act of 1990

8. Presidential Decree No. 1586 - Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)

Statement of 1978

### PON

22 This recognizes the distinction between the Republic of Philippines Sustainable Finance Framework, which only recognizes “green” activities, and the SFTG, which also recognizes “Amber” categories.

27

## Page 32

9, Presidential Decree No. 705 — Revised Forestry Code

10. Republic Act No. 7942 - Philippine Mining Act of 1995

11. Presidential Decree No. 1899 - Small-Scale Mining Law

12. Republic Act No. 4003 - The Fisheries Act

13. Republic Act No. 9367 - the Biofuels Act of 2006

14. Republic Act No. 9513 - the Renewable Energy Act of 2008

15. Republic Act No. 11285 - the Energy Efficiency & Conservation Act of 2019

16. Republic Act No. 11697 - the Electric Vehicle Industry Act (the "EVIDA") of 2022

17. Republic Act No. 7611 - Strategic Environmental Plan for Palawan Act

3.4 The ‘traffic light’ classification system

° Activities are then assessed according to a series of criteria, guiding questions and decision trees to ultimately determine corresponding classification as “Green”, “Amber” or “Red”.

° The principles-based approach to classifying activities aims to offer simplicity by undertaking a qualitative assessment of an entity’s activity against the relevant Environmental Objectives (EO) and then applying the Essential Criteria. They are designed to accommodate different users of the SFTG. A ### summary of the classifications is included below:

Table 5: Summary of Classification of Activities for SFTG

Definition The Activity is making a substantial contribution to an EO and meets the

Essential Criteria of DNSH and MSS.

The Activity makes a substantial contribution to an EO but causes

significant harm to another EO. However, that harm can be remediated

within 5 years or an independent verification supports a claim that

remediation will take less than 10 years. It must also meet the Essential

Criteria of DNSH and MSS.

The Activity does not serve any EO or meet the Essential Criteria.

° An activity that falls under the “Red” classification may still be eligible for ‘unlabelled’ financing, and it does not imply that the activity is unsustainable. Rather, it does not meet the higher sustainability ambition of the SFTG, nor pass the DNSH or MSS tests.

28

## Page 33

3.5 Choosing an Environmental Objective ° An EO (being either Climate Change Mitigation or Climate Change Adaptation in this version) is chosen first. Both EOs can be listed. However, a single EO must be considered as the ‘primary’ objective and stated in any assessment. Guidance on choosing the relevant EO considering certain factors is provided below. Table 6: Choosing an Environmental Objective a Activity Relevance and 2. Investors / Financial _ 3. Government and Industry Strategic Alignment Institutions’ Priority Guidance _¢ Which EO is most e Whatis the investors’ I ¢ Has the government issued relevant to the Activity? I priority and investment I any guidance (including _@ Whatis the strategic strategy? I policies, roadmaps, and focus of the Company — ¢ Which EO(s) is most I guidelines) which indicates doing the Activity? _ aligned to the investors’ I that this Activity contributes ¢ Which EO(s) is most priority and strategy? to a specific EO under the NDC aligned to the I - ornational plans? Company’s strategic -e Is there guidance (including focus? policies, roadmaps, and _ guidelines) from the sectoral

bodies which indicates that

this Activity contributes to a specific EO under a sectoral

plan?

I } I I

Companies should use their judgement, given the responses to the questions, to determine which EO is the most relevant to the activity being assessed.

If the selections remain ambiguous, companies can refer to the guiding questions and narrative below for each EO to better understand its relevance.

3.5.1 Guidance on ‘substantial’ contribution

Some activities by their nature substantially contribute to an EO and are eligible for taxonomy alignment. These are activities which help with decarbonisation or improving adaptability to climate change. For the climate change mitigation objective, this might include solar power installations that reduce or avoid emission. For the climate change adaptation objective, this might include physical and non-physical solutions that substantially reduce the most important physical climate risks that are material to that activity. Adaptation should be achieved without increasing the risk of an adverse impact on other people, nature, and assets more broadly.

Some enabling activities substantially contribute to taxonomy objectives through the provision of their products or services. For example, manufacturing low- carbon technology such as wind farm blades, transmission line infrastructure to

29

## Page 34

3.6.1

service renewable energy supply, or developing technology for early warning systems for climate change adaptation. Provided they do not lock in assets undermining long term EOs, they can be considered to make an overall substantial contribution.

‘Enabling’ activities for adaptation can make a substantial contribution if that improves the performance of another activity, such as some non-life insurance products, research, and development (e.g., in natural sciences and engineering) and related technical consultancies. This is distinguished from adapted activities, which relate to expenditure in adaptation of an investment, such as renovation of a building to improve drainage.

Under a principles-based approach, there are no specific technical criteria set to determine whether an activity meets a ‘substantial’ threshold and requires the taxonomy user to use its own judgment in assessing the activity as guided by the qualitative framework.

Using the Decision Tree and Guiding Questions to Assess an Activity

Having decided on the primary EO, the user can assess their activity under the decision tree.

In this first phase of the SFTG, there are two (2) decision trees: Climate Change Mitigation (EO1) and Climate Change Adaptation (E02).

Further decision trees would be added in later phases for the future objectives of Ecosystems and Biodiversity and Circular Economy.

Climate Change Mitigation Decision Tree and Guiding Questions (E01)

An activity will meet the objective of climate change mitigation if (a) it reduces GHG emissions on a trajectory that will aim to meet the 1.5°C Paris Agreement goal or (b) the activity is not low or zero- emissions but can show it is able to avoid or reduce GHG emissions based on best practices compared to a baseline case without any mitigating action. This aligns with the ASEAN Taxonomy Foundation Framework Version 2 approach.

If an activity makes a contribution in one or more of the following areas, it will ### meet the climate change mitigation objective:

> Avoids GHG emissions; > Reduces GHG emissions; or > Enables others to avoid or reduce GHG emissions.

30

## Page 35

1. Climate Change

### Mitigation : ### : . ### : . . ### 2A, Activity does not : ### 2. en = “Cause ash Sete eeeeeeeee :

i significant harm ### other EOs : . . _ . ( i . 5 3B. Concrete plan exists to re i j 3A, Activity no longer causes ri I3. Post-mitigation iI significant harm to other EOs eueeeeeeween implement remedial measures see nnereeensonenseend I harm ihn tase okies ae to address residual harm within I Se Sr 5 years / 10 years verified . ### H ### A 4A. Company meets minimum B. Company meets minimum H i i national standards relating to national standards relating to H _4. Minimum Social ik human rights, forced labour, human tights, forced fahour, ee I Safeguards child labour and impact on child fabour and impact on 4 . ### :

i

### 1A

If the level of contribution is judged by the assessor to be ‘substantial’ then it can proceed on the decision tree towards a green label, subject to meeting other requirements.

Figure 7: The E01 Climate Change Mitigation Decision Tree - EO1 Decision Tree Assessment for Classification of Activity

18. Activity enables

4A. Activity avoids / other stakeholders reduces GHG and/or Activities to peeucecucccccoscuscucccococususescusnsssscesassace

people tiving close to ——

peopie living close to investments ¥

### G-

Table 7: Guiding Questions for E01 Climate Change Mitigation - 1A and 1B

S/N I Guiding Questions -E01 (Climate Change Mitigation)

I Does the Activity avoid /reduce GHG emissions? 1. How does the Activity substantially avoid or help reduce emissions?

preventing the transition towards low carbon alternatives? © Does the Activity avoid leading to substantial GHG emissions, including Carbone Dioxide, Methane, Nitrous Oxide, Sulfur Hexafluoride, Nitrogen trifluoride, or Hydrofluorocarbons © Does the Activity avoid leading to or causing extensive deforestation practices? 2. Dothe Company’s policies and business strategy generally avoid contradicting or impeding alignment with the specified EO1 principles?

alignment of Activity with EO1 available? 4. Does the Activity comply with relevant environmental law(s) applicable to E01? 5. Are the effects of climate change mitigation efforts measurable and observable?

31

© Does the Activity avoid locking in high-carbon activity? Is it delaying or

3. Where applicable and relevant is a 3rd party certification or verification of I

## Page 36

S/N Guiding Questions - E01 (Climate Change Mitigation)

I climate change?

I Fe

I 4. I ; I

I

Once evaluation is complete, proceed to evaluate the Activity using the separate Guiding © I Questions for DNSH, RMT and MSS._ I

1B Does the Activity enable other stakeholders and/or other Activities to mitigate I I

Does the Activity help other stakeholders (including the community) to mitigate climate change? (e.g., construction of a building that facilitates urban planting)

© Does the Activity help upstream and/or downstream stakeholders to reduce I

their GHG emissions?

Does the Activity promote intersectoral collaborations for climate change mitigation without negatively affecting other sectors? I How does the Activity enable other Activities to mitigate climate change? (e.g., _ installation of power transmission and distribution equipment that enables the © incorporation of solar power) Are the effects of climate change mitigation efforts by the enabled Activity _ measurable and observable? (e.g., data on amount of carbon emissions avoided) —

3.6.2 Climate Change Adaptation Decision Tree and Guiding Questions (E02)

° An activity will meet the objective of Climate Change Adaptation if it focuses on managing actual and expected adverse consequences of climate change through evidence and relevant data regarding those effects. The activity should build resilience to mitigate and endure the physical effects of both current and future climate change.

### V

### WV

For example, to protect against sea level rise and increased flooding, communities might build seawalls or relocate buildings to higher ground. Further guidance may be obtained from the Philippines Climate Change Adaptation Strategy on potential activities.”

Economic activities under this criterion would contribute to a reduction in material physical climate risk and/or shall reasonably reduce material physical risk from current and future climate change. This can include obvious physical risks, such as flooding, but also less immediately visible effects, such as impact on health from higher temperatures.

Impact assessments under a broad range of climate scenarios would be conducted to provide better understanding and insights on the effectiveness and benefits of the Activity.

20Mi%2D

## Page 37

Activities enabling adaptation of other Activities should reduce the impact of material physical risk from other Activities and/or reduce barriers to

adaptation through technology, services, or products.

Activities must not adversely affect adaptation efforts,

physical risk, of other stakeholders.

or increase the

This objective focuses on lessening the damaging effects of climate change on

vulnerable people, ecosystems, and economies and raising resilience — or ensuring activities provide utility over time despite potential climate disruption.

If the level of contribution is judged by the assessor to be ‘substantial’ then it can

proceed on the decision tree towards a green label, subject to meeting other requirements.

Figure 8: The EO2 Climate Change Adaptation Decision Tree - EO2 Decision Tree Assessment for Classification of Activity

1A. Activity Involves

4, Climate Change I Adaptation

I 2. Pre-mitigation I harm

I3. Post-mitigation

\

4. Minimum Social I Safeguards

18. Activity enables other stakeholders and/or Activities to increase resilience to climate change

the Implementation of measures to increase

28. implementation of remedial measures already commenced at the time of

2A. Activity does not

cause potential significant harm to

38. Concrete plan exists to implement remedial measures to address residual harm within 5 years / 10 years verified

3A. Activity no longer causes significant harm to other EOs at the time of assessment

4A. Company meets minimum national standards relating to human rights, forced labour, child labour and impact on people living close to investments

48. Company meets minimum national standards relating to human rights, forced labour, child labour and impact on people living close to investments

Table 8: Guiding Questions for E02 Climate Change Adaptation

S/N Guiding Questions - E02 (Climate Change Adaptation)

1A Does the Activity implement measures to increase the Company’s resilience change? How does the Activity substantially contribute to Company’s resilience against adverse physical impacts of current and future climate change? (e.g., refurbishing

i.

anSecrscccaasy

Ye

i

: I

aa NS re set BG

infrastructure for greater resilience to impacts of sea level

protection infrastructure to protect facilities, operation of road and rail adapted to current and future heatwaves using more heat-resistant materials during its construction)

to climate

rise, building flood I

33

## Page 38

I S/N" Guiding Questions - E02 (Climate Change Adaptation) ie

© Has a climate risk assessment been conducted to establish the Activity’s risk I

I exposure towards physical climate risks?

© Has robust and recent climate data, projections and scenarios been used for the assessment?

I © Do the results of the climate risk assessment showcase the impacts of climate

I I change on the Activity? Is it a positive or negative impact?

I © Does the Activity consider the expected future climate in its current and — practices?

© Does the Activity avoid leading to an increase in the vulnerability of human or

natural systems because of climate change and climate variability- related risks?

2. Does the Activity avoid leading to an increased adverse impact of the current climate

and the expected future climate, on the Activity itself or on people, nature, or assets?

3. Does the Activity avoid impediments to adjusting to actual and expected climate I

change and its impacts? I 4. Do the Company’s policies and business strategy generally avoid contradicting or.

impeding alignment with the specified EO2 principles? And in particular, does it I include business continuity planning? 5. Is the reduction and/or prevention of increase in climate physical risks measurable and observable? (e.g, data on monthly transport accidents caused by disasters against maintenance activities delivered, data on houses repaired due to floods I _against budget i increase for building safeguards)

1B Does the Activity enable other - stakeholders and/or Activities to increase resilience to.

_ climate change?

1. Does the Activity help other stakeholders (including the community) to I

reduce /manage physical risks? (e.g., provision of infrastructure to facilitate climate change adaptation of stakeholders)

o Does the Activity avoid impeding upstream and/or downstream stakeholders from increasing their resilience to climate change?

2. Does it promote intersectoral collaborations for climate change adaptation without negatively affecting other sectors?

3. How does the Activity enable other Activities to reduce material physical risks? (e.g., removal of technological barriers to adaptation, activity which primarily provides installation of irrigation systems and improved land drainage measures that lead to reduced exposure to physical climate risks)

4. Hasaclimate risk assessment been conducted on the enabled Activity’s risk exposure towards physical climate risks?

o Has robust and recent climate data, projections and scenarios been used for the assessment?

© Do the results of the climate risk assessment showcase the impacts of climate change on the enabled Activity? Is it a positive or negative impact?

Once evaluation is complete, proceed to evaluate the Activity using the separate Guiding

Questions for DNSH, RMT and MSS.

34

## Page 39

3.6.3 Assessment of the Essential Criteria of DNSH, RMT and MSS

° For an activity to be taxonomy aligned, the assessor should determine if the ### activity fulfils the following three (3) Essential Criteria:

(a) DoNo Significant Harm (DNSH) (b) Remedial Measures to Transition (RMT) (c) Minimum Social Safeguards (MSS)

° Following the EOs - Climate Change Mitigation and Climate Change Adaptation - assessment above, the assessor proceeds to the next layer of the decision tree, and assesses the Activity against each of the Essential Criteria on DNSH, RMT and ### MSS.

° An extract of the full decision tree used above is repeated here for easier ### reference:

Figure 9: The logic flow and decision-tree diagram for assessing essential criteria (excerpt from Figure 8 above)

2B. Implementation of

2A. Activity does not cause potential significant harm to

remedial measures already commenced ssasseteceruse

Sovenvcces hf theo tise oF aythoowwnse > >

3B. Concrete plan exists to implement remedial measures to address residual harm within 5 years / 10 years verified

3A. Activity no longer causes significant harm to other EOs suaeeeseceen at the time of assessment

4A. Company meets minimum 4B. Company meets minimum national standards relating to national standards relating to human rights, forced labour, child labour and impact on people living close to investments

human rights, forced labour, child labour and impact on people living close to investments

seeccenbossecesenecent

### G-

° Each decision box within the decision tree in Figure 9 above contains a binary question, that the assessor will need to answer. The assessor answers ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ to the binary question based on information pertaining to the Activity being assessed.

Table 9: Guiding details to the decision box in the 1 flow diagram Decision Box I Details to Guide Decision

2A. A. Activity « does not The Activity potentially causes harm to EOs other than the one I cause potential I against which it is being assessed. It is important to understand

35

## Page 40

fo Decision Box significant harm to other — _EOs.

2B. Implementation of

_remedial measures

_ already commenced at

the time of assessment

3A. Activity no longer

causes significant harm

to other EOs at the time of

_ assessment

3B. Concrete p plan exists

to implement remedial

_ measures to address

residual harm within 5 years, or 10 years on

I independent verification

4A/4B. The Company meets minimum national standards relating to human rights, forced labour, child labour and impact on people living

_ close to investments

Details to Guide Decision

I the significance of the harm caused by the Activity y based on the

materiality of the harm to each EO. The assessor should consider whether the degree (i.e., severity) of the harm and

scale of the harm when the Activity commences (i.e., the date of

the notice to proceed) would reasonably indicate that the harm

is material. I The Company implementing the Activity has recognised ‘the potential for, or the occurrence of significant harm, and has”

already started to implement remedial measures to reduce

harm at the time of assessment. I

The implementation of remedial measures adequately.

mitigates /addresses the harm caused and the Activity no longer I causes significant harm to other EOs. I The implementation of remedial measures does not adequately I mitigate or address the harm caused and as such, the Company I has established concrete plans for additional remedial measures I to address remaining harm within 5 years, or if the harm is not expected to be remediated within 5 years, it obtained independent verification that it will be remediated within 10. years.

The Company has recognised the impacts of its Activity 0 on n its I employees and surrounding communities, and has met national standards relating to human rights, forced labour, child labour. and impact on people living close to investments.

3.6.4 Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) - Guidance and Guiding Questions

° Do no significant harm (DNSH) refers to the principle that an activity contributing to one EO should not cause significant harm to another EO.

° An activity inevitably has an impact on its surrounding environment. For example, a wind farm that is built in a coastal area that is vulnerable to significant storm surges, may significantly harm the climate change adaptation objective if it is not reasonably designed to withstand expected climate change impacts.

° The DNSH assessment is a more focused approach than the previous general screening for compliance with national laws in Section 3.3 above, as it focuses solely on the potential or actual harm to another EO.

36

## Page 41

e Together with the initial screening for compliance with laws, and with the MSS assessment below, they reflect an overall sustainability risk management approach.

° An assessment of DNSH classification of an activity

- Mandatory step 1: The user will have already assessed for compliance with Philippines laws.

? Mandatory step 2: As a next step, the DNSH analysis looks at whether the activity significantly harms the other EO. In future versions, this will extend to an assessment of harm against other defined EOs. This is the core element of the DNSH assessment.

7 Optional step 3: A user may assess whether the activity seeks to avoid harm to other EOs (such as circular economy and ecosystems and biodiversity). This is part of a broader ESG risk management approach.

. Optional step 4: A user may adopt an ESG management system approach aligned with an internationally recognised standard such as the IFC Performance Standards or the OECD Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct. This is part of a broader ESG risk management approach.

° In addition, even though DNSH relates to an activity’s significant harm to other EQOs, an activity may also be rejected for an environmentally sustainable classification if the activity causes some direct or indirect effect which detracts from the contribution to the intended EO itself.

3 Assessments should clearly disclose which steps were taken in the assessment.

® The following are general guiding questions for DNSH. One consideration as a threshold question is materiality - as a way to determine whether harm is ‘significant’. This can rely to an extent on the judgment by the assessor and may be appropriate for a principles-based approach.4

Table 10: General Guiding Questions for DNSH

[= S/ N Guiding Questions - Do No Significant Harm

2A I Ifan Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required, has it been conducted andI approved for the Activity? Has the Activity otherwise been assessed as material in its potential to cause significant harm?

1. What are the results of the EIA and where are the impacts of the activity?

2. Have remedial measures recommended in the EIA been implemented?

24 The International Sustainability Standards Board allows a degree of judgment as to what is ‘material’ by disclosing material sustainability risks on the basis that information is considered material if omitting, misstating or obscuring that information could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial reports make on th basis of those reports.

https://www.ifrs.org/content/dam/ifrs -ifrs-

## Page 42

iM S/N

### EO

2A EO1 (CC 1. Does the Activity avoid I significant GHG emissions, incl. C02, CH, 1, N20, SF6,, ### I Mitigation) I NF3 and/or HFCs (using, for example, GHG Protocol standards to support: I I

—_ 2A E02 (cc 11. Does the Activity avoid leading to an increase in the vulnerability of human. I Adaptation); or natural systems (including on biodiversity) because of climate change

eee Te ee

3.6.5

Guiding Questions - Do No Significant Harm

3. Regardless of whether an EIA has been ‘conducted or not, is there any evidence or consideration that suggests the activity could cause significant harm to the wider ecosystem (including to biodiversity)? I 4, Have due diligence practices of the assessor been adopted that are aligned with the IFC Performance Standards, the Equator Principles or the World Bank I

Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines? This is not a mandatory question or

step; however, it may simplify the assessment process and provide alignment with. I international frameworks usedbyinvestors, OS I

The assessor decides which of the EO(s) could experience significant harm because of the Activity. Additional guidance is included below.

Table 11: Environmental Objective Specific guiding questions fo for DNSH Guiding Questions - ‘DNSH —

Vana

measurement)?

2. Does the Activity avoid leading to or causing extensive deforestation?

3. Does the Activity avoid impeding upstream and/or downstream stakeholders from reducing their GHG emissions?

and climate variability-related risks?

2. Does the Activity avoid impeding upstream and/or downstream stakeholders from increasing their resilience to climate change?

3. Does the Activity avoid an increased adverse impact of the current climate I and the expected future climate, on the activity itself or on people, nature, or assets?

4. Does the Activity avoid impeding the adjustment to actual and expected

climate change and its impacts?

5. Does the Activity consider the expected future climate in its current and

planned practices?

Remedial Measures to Transition - Guidance and Guiding Questions If an activity does cause significant harm to another EO, it is possible that it may still be taxonomy aligned, provided it has taken Remedial Measures to

Transition (RMT).

RMT measures require any actual or potential significant harm to be removed or rendered insignificant.

38

## Page 43

If an assessment shows that an activity that substantially contributes to an EO is causing or may cause significant harm, the classification shall be Amber, pending effective remediation.

Any RMT should be fulfilled within a 5-year timeframe from the assessment date, or an independent verification supports a claim that remediation will take 10 years or less.

Any expected remediation beyond 5 years without independent verification, or beyond 10 years is not eligible for the Amber category and will be classified as Red.

### The following guidance applies regarding the independent verifier:

(a) The independent external reviewer must assess and verify the credibility of the remediation timeline and plan confirming a maximum of 10 years to remediate, with specification of the expected number of years (for example, with limited or reasonable assurance and where feasible, with reference to other remediation benchmark timeframes and any Philippine Environmental Impact System requirements).

(b) The reviewer should have relevant expertise.

(c) The reviewer must disclose their relevant credentials and expertise and the scope of the verification conducted in an assurance report.

Comprehensive and realistic plans for RMT must be presented as part of the assessment. If significant harm is occurring or will occur, and RMT is not planned to be completed within the specified timeframe, the Activity is automatically classified as Red.

RMT may refer to the Philippines’ Environmental Impact Assessment System as reference on practices imposing time limits.

A series of guiding qualitative questions is outlined below to assess whether significant harm has been or would be caused and remedial measures are or would be taken.

Assessors are expected to encourage, support, and take into account the remedial efforts of businesses to align their operations with a low-carbon and climate resilient economy. Financial institutions can play a particularly important role in encouraging MSMEs to consider their business activities and plans to align their operations.

39

## Page 44

### 3A

Table 12: Guiding Questions for RMT — Guiding PHESDUES se

_ Have remedial measures already started to be implemented at the time of assessment?

1. Does the Activity remediate risk and impacts through e.g., compliance with relevant (national) environmental law(s), internal policies and processes, implementation of additional measures that reduce harm? For example, is there an Environmental and Social Action plan in place with milestones, timelines, and

I measure to ensure and disclose compliance?

2. What are these proposed actions and their contributions to remediation (e.g., avoidance, minimisation, reduction)?

3. Is there available technology for this Activity in place for compliant risk management measures against the adverse effects of climate change?

4. If the Activity is new and has yet to commence, consider whether there are planned remedial measures already in place to address the potential harm.

c Does the Activity no longer cause significant harm to other Eos at the time of I

"assessment?

1. If the answer is no, there is still ‘residual harm’, which refers to any harm that remains even after compliance with the relevant environmental laws and

Company's processes and policies, as well as implementation of any other

measures on top of compliance, then go to 3B.

__ minimisation, reduction)?

"Are there concrete plans established for remedial measures to address the residual —

harm within a defined timeframe?

1. Do the planned remedial measures fall within 5 years? If longer than 5 years and up to 10 years, is there independent verification of the credibility of the longer timeframe for example, by reference to similar benchmark projects?

2. What is the expected output for results of tracking and monitoring (e.g., annual reports, sustainability reports, other publications)?

3. Are the remedial measures and assessments done appropriate/proportionate to the business’ scale of operations and industry benchmarks?

4. Whoare the direct stakeholders involved in the Activity’s supply chain? What are these proposed actions and their contributions to remediation (e.g., avoidance,

Minimum Social Safeguards - Guidance

Minimum Social Safeguards (MSS) are the standards to ensure that the entities doing the activities comply at a minimum with Philippines social regulatory requirements. This assessment is done at the company level as opposed to the activity level. Applying this principle ensures that the activity achieving an Environmental Objective is not done while harming a social aspect thus promoting conduct for responsible business.

40

1 I me Sf

## Page 45

### The following constitute the MSS:

(a) Promotion and protection of human rights

ie)

Compliance with the Philippines laws on human rights, labor rights, corruption, fair competition, the Constitution, and international conventions ratified by the Philippines.

(b) Prevention of forced labour and protection of children’s rights

[e)

Philippines laws including exploitation, trafficking in persons, violence, and abuse, as well as the core ILO conventions ratified by the Philippines*5. For example, this may include specific laws regarding employment of industrial homeworkers under DOLE 1974 and may be implied under other laws regarding confiscation of identity documents of migrant workers. Additionally, entities must comply with any nationally adopted laws under the ASEAN Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and the ASEAN Consensus on the Protection and Promotion of Rights of Migrant Workers (ASEAN, 2012);

(c) Impact on People living Close to Investments

oO

As companies undertake new investments, they must ensure targeted measures are taken to reduce the impact of those investments on vulnerable populations and the people affected. Given this, companies in the Philippines carrying out activities within ancestral domains/lands are required to undergo a free and prior informed consent (FPIC) process with indigenous cultural communities/indigenous peoples as part of the meaningful stakeholder consultation requirements (FAO, 2006). Entities must also comply with other national laws such as any adopting the ASEAN Declaration on Strengthening Social Protection (ASEAN, 2013). For example: (i) improved or restored livelihood and standard of living e.g., for displaced persons and for local household (ii) improved living conditions for physically displaced persons through the provisions of adequate housing with securities of tenure at resettlement sites (iii) promoting sustainable development benefits and opportunities for indigenous peoples in a culturally appropriate manner.

A non-exhaustive list of regulations pertaining to social aspects for the Philippines are listed in Appendix 1.

### 25 A list of ILO ratifications is found here: ### https:

41

## Page 46

3.7

### The boundary of MSS coverage is as follows:

a. The MSS assessment will cover the immediate Company carrying out the Activity as well as branches/subsidiaries (if any) that are directly involved in carrying out the Activity, without which the Activity cannot be carried out.

b. I Theadherence to the MSS of suppliers and subcontractors directly involved in carrying out the Activity, without which the Activity cannot be carried out, e.g., through signing a Code of Conduct.

c. The Company should refer to national legislation and regulations of the country in which the organisation (e.g., corporate or branch/subsidiary) is based.

For example, if the immediate Company carrying out the Activity is based in the Philippines, but its subsidiary is based in Indonesia, then the assessment will be done with reference to Philippine legislation and regulations for the Company, while Indonesia legislations and regulations will be referenced for the subsidiary.

Not meeting national legislation and thus failing the MSS assessment leads to a ‘Red’ classification.

If a Company is found or known to have an unsatisfactory track record (due to violations or breaches) in at least one of the social safeguards outlined above, the Company will still be allowed to undergo the MSS assessment; but as an additional requirement, it has to prove that its relevant processes (where violations or breaches have occurred) have improved and remediation processes were implemented to prevent a repeat of violation or breach. Data on a Company’s violations and breaches of the MSS may be collected through publicly available sources (such as controversy and adverse media screenings), but it is ultimately up to the Company’s discretion to voluntarily disclose such violations or breaches.

The summary of guiding questions for the EOs and Essential Criteria on DNSH, RMT and MSS is provided in Appendix 2. Sample use cases on climate change mitigation and adaptation are provided in Appendices 3 and 4, respectively.

External verification and use of Industry Standards

Except for the mandatory external verification for remedial measures to address harm in the Amber category, assessors can, but are not required to use third-party verifications or recognised certifications by local agencies, national

42

## Page 47

authorities, or international accreditation bodies to inform their internal screening and assessment process.

e External verifiers can give investors comfort regarding the status of an activity’s alignment with a taxonomy, for example, regarding a capital markets transaction.

° The external verifier process includes but is not limited to engagement planning, pre-assessment preparation, on-site or remote assessment, data collection and analysis, verification reporting, feedback and validation, recommendations and corrective actions, communication of results and continuous monitoring.

° When assessing contribution to EOs, DNSH, RMT and MSS, verifiers, for example, can assess the company’s internal remediation processes add/or mechanisms against a range of industry standards and certifications. Reference to a non-exhaustive list of associated international standards and certifications as benchmarks when dealing with the relevant sustainability gaps is outlined in the Appendix 5 of this document. These include industry standards and certifications which may be particularly relevant to MSME’s, taken from the IFC Sustainable MSME Finance Reference.26

° Sustainability reporting disclosures, issued by the SEC relating to Publicly Listed Companies and by the BSP in relation to BSP-supervised financial institutions, and internationally recognised disclosure standards may also assist in providing evidence of Company practices.

3.8 Assessment of Exposures to MSMEs

° Micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the Philippines, comprising 99.59 percent (1,105,143)? of the total 1,109,684 business enterprises in 202278, continue to be a significant source of revenue for the country, with a 40 percent contribution to the country’s GDP29. Around 87 percent of the total ### MSMEs are distributed across the following top five industry sectors, namely: (1) Wholesale and Retail Trade; Repair of Motor Vehicles and Motorcycles; (2) Accommodation and Food Service Activities; (3) Manufacturing; (4) Other Service Activities; and (5) Financial and Insurance Activities.30

26 https://www.ifc.org/content/dam /ifc/doclink/2023/sustainable-msme-finance-reference-guide-ifc-2023.pdf

27 Micro, small, and medium enterprises constitute 90.49 percent, 8.69 percent, and 0.40 percent of the total establishments, respectively, 28 https://www.dti.gov.ph/resources/msme-sté °S

29 UNDP 2020 report (https://philippines.un.org/en 93680-msme-sector-key-covid-19-inclusive-recovery-ph)

30 https://www.dti.gov.ph/resources/msme-statistics /

43

## Page 48

° Because of their limited size and resources, MSMEs also heavily bear the negative effects of climate change in their respective businesses. Climate change risks and natural hazards have an impact on the continuity of business operations of MSMEs, and on the health and safety of their employees. Meanwhile, the aggregate global environmental footprint of SMEs contributes around 60-70 percent to industrial emissions.*#

° Initiatives to promote sustainable finance and efforts to address climate change should be inclusive and should not result in unintended consequences at the disadvantage of the vulnerable sector, that includes the MSMEs. MSMEs provide 65.1 percent of the total employment? in the Philippines and can therefore substantially contribute to strengthening the country’s resilience to climate change.33. MSMEs can likewise support climate change mitigation by transitioning to renewable energies, adopting green technology for sustainable production, and contributing to the low-carbon value chain.34 Given this, the SFTG can be a tool to channel funds to MSMEs’ climate change mitigation or adaptation efforts to make their businesses climate smart and environment- friendly.

Assessment of MSMEs’ Activities

° Given the diversity of MSMEs, this SFTG intends to provide a simplified approach for the assessment of their activities or projects. The approach shall be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect developments in the sustainable finance space.

a. First, the activity must not be considered as an “excluded” activity and is compliant with national laws, rules, and regulations, consistent with Section 3.

b. I Second, financing an activity should align with an appropriate Use of Proceeds (UoP) standard. Samples of certifications and activities/ projects35 that can be considered as eligible sustainable UoP for MSME financing are provided in Appendices 5 and 6.

strengthening- policy- and-collective-action-sme-greening 32 https://www.dti.gov.ph/resources/msme- -statistics/

33 Climate information for climate change adaptation. 2018. Hoedjes, Miller & Usher. United Nations Environment ### Programme & Technical University of Denmark (UNEP DTU). Available at: H ://www.researchgate.net/publicatior te > Private- ctor action in adaptatio cti nth f micro small medium si nterprise 34 https://www.afi-global.org/w — iploads on 07/AFI_SMEF IGF-MSMEs AW digital 0. 35 IFC Sustainable MSME Finance Reference Guide (Chapter III. Eligible sustainable MSME Use of Proceeds)

44

## Page 49

é. Third, if an appropriate UoP cannot be identified, the activity should be assessed following the “traffic light” classification system provided in Section 3.4 and the assessments from Sections 3.5-3.7.

An MSME’s activity may achieve appropriate green or social standards as assessed by an independent third party as referenced in Section 3.7. Environmental-focused international sustainable certifications and standards obtained by the MSME provide assurance that the processes and practices of the MSME do not constitute significant harm to other environmental objectives. These certifications may include, but are not limited to, Rainforest Alliance Certification, Forest Stewardship Council Certification, Fairtrade Certification, Sustainable Rice Platform, Sustainably Grown, etc. (as outlined in Appendix 5). National or local government environmental clearances may also be considered in the assessment.

However, these certifications and clearances should be complemented by sound judgment and some form of assessment by the bank/finance provider concerned to check for evidence or consideration that suggests the activity could make a significant contribution to an environmental objective and does not cause significant harm to the wider ecosystem (including to biodiversity) or if the MSME has the capability to conduct the activity that will not cause significant harm. This may include, checking publicly available data on possible environmental violations or negative records attributable to the MSME. They may also conduct interviews with the borrower/activity proponent using the guiding questions, but this does not preclude banks/finance providers from adopting additional questions that may draw the needed information from the MSME as long as this information can be reasonably provided for by the MSME.

Figure 10: Decision Tree for Assessing MSME Activity

MSME Aligned with Activity for appropriate Financing UoP standard

Assess under ### SFTG

45

## Page 50

Appendix 1: Non-Exhaustive List of Laws for Minimum Social Safeguards

Respect human rights

Prevention of forced and child labor

Constitution of the Philippines

Expanded Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2012 (R.A. No. 10364)

Anti-Trafficking of Persons Act, 2003 (R.A. No. 9208) Department Order No. 149-A of 2017 amending the Guidelines on Assessing and Determining Hazardous Work in the Employment of Persons Below the Age of 18 Years

Department Order No. 149 of 2016 on the Guidelines on Assessing and Determining Hazardous Work in the Employment of Persons Below the Age of 18 Years Expanded Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2012 (RA. No. 10364)

Special Program for Employment of Students (R.A. No. 9547)

Rules and Regulations implementing R.A. No. 9231, Amending R.A. No. 7610, as amended (Department Order 65-04)

Department Order No. 04 on hazardous work and activities to persons below 18 years of age

Department Order No. 18 of 12 May 1994 on Rules and Regulations implementing R.A. No. 7658 Act prohibiting the employment of children below 15 years of age in public and private undertakings, amending for this purpose Section 12, Article VIII of R.A. No. 7610 (R.A. No. 7658)

Rules implementing R.A. No. 6727 (Wage Rationalization Act)

List of Hazardous Occupations to Young Workers, 1973 (Department Order No. 4)

Department Order No. 5. Rules XIV of the Rules Implementing Book III of the Labor Code on Employment of Homeworkers, 1992

46

## Page 51

Child and Youth Welfare Code

e Special Protection Against Child Abuse, Exploitation and Discrimination Amendment Act (R.A No. 9231)

e Executive Order No. 310 authorizing the adoption and implementation of the Philippine National Strategic Framework for plan development for children, 2000- 2025

e Proclamation No. 855 proclaiming the adoption and implementation of the Philippine Program of Action for Children in the 1990s

e Department of Natural Resources and Environment Administrative Order No. 30 Series of 2003

Indigenous Peoples’ Rights Act 1997

Impact on people living close to investments

Source: Annex 5 to the ASEAN Taxonomy for Sustainable Finance Version 2 - social regulations by ASEAN Member State

47

## Page 52

Appendix 2: Compilation of Guiding Questions for Environmental Objectives (EOs) and Essential Criteria (EC)

### EO1 - CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION

Is the Activity an Excluded Activity? mz aa

Is the Activity in compliance with Philippine laws?

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? 3:6,1 (Table 7) ### Guiding Questions: Does the Activity avoid / reduce GHG emissions? 1. How does the Activity substantially avoid or help reduce emissions? e Does the Activity avoid locking in high-carbon activity? Is it delaying or preventing the transition towards low carbon alternatives?

e Does the Activity avoid leading to substantial GHG emissions, including CO2, CH4, N20, SF6, NF3 and/or HfCs?

e Does the Activity avoid leading to or causing extensive deforestation practices?

2. Do the Company’s policies and business strategy generally avoid contradicting or impeding alignment with the specified EO1 principles?

3. Where applicable and relevant is a 3rd party certification or verification of alignment of Activity with EO1 available?

4. Does the Activity comply with relevant environmental law(s) applicable to EO1?

5. Are the effects of climate change mitigation efforts measurable and observable? (e.g., data on amount of carbon emissions avoided)

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? 3.6.1 (Table 7) ### Guiding Questions: Does the Activity enable other stakeholders and/or other Activities to mitigate climate change? 1. Does the Activity help other stakeholders (including the community) to mitigate climate change? (e.g., construction of a building that facilitates urban planting) e Does the Activity help upstream and/or downstream stakeholders to reduce their GHG emissions? 2. Does the Activity promote intersectoral collaborations for climate change mitigation without negatively affecting other sectors? 3. How does the Activity enable other Activities to mitigate climate change? (e.g., installation of power transmission and distribution equipment that enables the incorporation of solar power)

48

3 3

rence I 2 3

## Page 53

### EC1 ### 2A

### EC2

Activity measurable and observable? (e.g. data on amount of carbon emissions avoided)

### DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM Activity does not cause potential significant harm to other EOs.

### General Guiding Questions:

If an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required, has it

been conducted and approved for the Activity? Has the Activity

otherwise been assessed as material in its potential to cause significant harm?

¢ What are the results of the EIA and where are the impacts of the activity?

e Have remedial measures recommended in the EIA been implemented?

e Regardless of whether an EIA has been conducted or not, is there any evidence or consideration that suggests the activity could cause significant harm to the wider ecosystem (including to biodiversity)?

¢ Have due diligence practices of the assessor been adopted that are aligned with the IFC Performance Standards, the Equator Principles or the World Bank Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines? This is not a mandatory question or step; however, it may simplify the assessment process and provide alignment with international frameworks used by investors.

EO-specific guiding questions (assessing against EO2 Climate ### Change Adaptation:

¢ Does the Activity avoid leading to an increase in the vulnerability of human or natural systems (including on biodiversity) because of climate change and climate variability-related risks?

¢ Does the Activity avoid impeding upstream and/or downstream stakeholders from increasing their resilience to climate change?

e Does the Activity avoid an increased adverse impact of the current climate and the expected future climate, on the activity itself or on people, nature, or assets?

e Does the Activity avoid impeding the adjustment to actual and expected climate change and its impacts?

¢ Does the Activity consider the expected future climate in its current and planned practices?

### REMEDIAL MEASURES TO TRANSITION Have remedial measures already started to be implemented at the time of assessment?

3.6.4 (Table 10)

3.6.4 (Table 11)

3.6.5 (Table 12)

49

## Page 54

compliance with relevant (national) environmental law(s), internal policies and processes, implementation of additional measures that reduce harm? For example, is there an Environmental and Social Action plan in place with milestones, timelines, and measure to ensure and disclose compliance?

What are these proposed actions and their contributions to remediation (e.g., avoidance, minimization, reduction)?

Is there available technology for this Activity in place for compliant risk management measures against the adverse effects of climate change?

If the Activity is new and has yet to commence, consider whether there are planned remedial measures already in place to address the potential harm.

3A I Does the Activity no longer cause significant harm to other EOs at the time of assessment?

### EC3

If the answer is no, there is still ‘residual harm’, which refers to any harm that remains even after compliance with the relevant environmental laws and Company’s processes and policies, as well as implementation of any other measures on top of compliance, then go to 3B.

Are there concrete plans established for remedial measures to address the residual harm within a defined timeframe?

Do the planned remedial measures fall within 5 years? If longer than 5 years and up to 10 years, is there independent verification of the credibility of the longer timeframe for example, by reference to similar benchmark projects?

What is the expected output for results of tracking and monitoring (e.g., annual reports, sustainability reports, other publications)? Are the remedial measures and assessments done appropriate/proportionate to the business’ scale of operations and industry benchmarks?

Who are the direct stakeholders involved in the Activity’s supply chain? What are these proposed actions and their contributions to remediation (e.g., avoidance, minimization, reduction)?

### MINIMUM SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS Does the company comply with relevant laws, rules, and ### regulations, which include the following:

Promotion and protection of human rights

3.6.5 (Table 12)

3.6.5 (Table 12)

50

## Page 55

» Compliance with the Philippines laws on human rights, labo rights, corruption, fair competition, the Constitution, and international conventions ratified by the Philippines.

Prevention of forced labour and protection of children’s rights

» Philippine laws including exploitation, trafficking in persons, violence, and abuse, as well as the core ILO conventions ratified by the Philippines. For example, this may include specific laws regarding employment of industrial homeworkers under DOLE 1974 and may be implied under other laws regarding confiscation of identity documents of migrant workers. Additionally, entities must comply with any nationally adopted laws under the ASEAN Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and the ASEAN Consensus on the Protection and Promotion of Rights of Migrant Workers ### (ASEAN, 2012).

e Impact on People living Close to Investments

» As companies undertake new investments, they must ensure targeted measures are taken to reduce the impact of those investments on vulnerable populations and the people affected. Given this, companies in the Philippines carrying out activities within ancestral domains/lands are required to undergo a free and prior informed consent (FPIC) process with indigenous cultural communities/indigenous peoples as part of the meaningful stakeholder consultation requirements (FAO, 2006). Entities must also comply with other national laws such as any adopting the ASEAN Declaration on ### Strengthening Social Protection (ASEAN, 2013). For example:

I. improved or restored livelihood and standard of living e.g., for displaced persons and for local household

Il. improved living conditions for physically displaced persons through the provisions of adequate housing with securities of tenure at resettlement sites promoting sustainable development benefits and opportunities for indigenous peoples in a culturally appropriate manner.

### EO2 - CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION

Is the Activity an Excluded i ) — a2 3

Is the Activity in compliance with Philippine laws?

(Table 8)

51

## Page 56

Does the Activity implement measures to increase the Company’s

resilience to climate change?

1. How does the Activity substantially contribute to Company’s resilience against adverse physical impacts of current and future climate change? (e.g. refurbishing infrastructure for greater resilience to impacts of sea level rise, building flood protection infrastructure to protect facilities, operation of road and rail adapted to current and future heatwaves using more heat-resistant materials during its construction)

e Has a climate risk assessment been conducted to establish the Activity’s risk exposure towards physical climate risks?

e Has robust and recent climate data, projections and scenarios been used for the assessment?

e Do the results of the climate risk assessment showcase the impacts of climate change on the Activity? Is it a positive or negative impact?

e Does the Activity consider the expected future climate in its current and planned practices?

e Does the Activity avoid leading to an increase in the vulnerability of human or natural systems because of climate change and climate variability- related risks?

2. Does the Activity avoid leading to an increased adverse impact of the current climate and the expected future climate, on the Activity itself or on people, nature, or assets?

3. Does the Activity avoid impediments to adjusting to actual and expected climate change and its impacts?

4. Do the Company’s policies and business strategy generally avoid contradicting or impeding alignment with the specified E02 principles? And in particular, does it include business continuity planning?

5. Is the reduction and/or prevention of increase in climate physical

risks measurable and observable? (e.g., data on monthly transport

accidents caused by disasters against maintenance activities delivered, data on houses repaired due to floods against budget increase for building safeguards)?

3.6.2 (Table 8)

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Adaptation?

### Guiding Questions:

Does the Activity enable other stakeholders and/or Activities to increase resilience to climate change?

1. Does the Activity help other stakeholders (including the community) to reduce/manage physical risks? (e.g., provision of

52

## Page 57

### EC1 ### 2A

infrastructure to te of

stakeholders)

e Does the Activity avoid impeding upstream and/or downstream stakeholders from increasing their resilience to climate change?

Does it promote intersectoral collaborations for climate change

adaptation without negatively affecting other sectors?

How does the Activity enable other Activities to reduce material

physical risks? (e.g, removal of technological barriers to

adaptation, activity which primarily provides installation of irrigation systems and improved land drainage measures that lead to reduced exposure to physical climate risks)?

Has a climate risk assessment been conducted on the enabled

Activity’s risk exposure towards physical climate risks?

e Has robust and recent climate data, projections and scenarios been used for the assessment?

Do the results of the climate risk assessment showcase the impacts of climate change on the enabled Activity? Is it a positive or negative impact?

### DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM Activity does not cause potential significant harm to other EOs. 3.6.4 (Table 10)

### General Guiding Questions:

If an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required, has it

been conducted and approved for the Activity? Has the Activity

otherwise been assessed as material in its potential to cause significant harm?

e What are the results of the EIA and where are the impacts of the activity?

e Have remedial measures recommended in the EIA been implemented?

e Regardless of whether an EIA has been conducted or not, is there any evidence or consideration that suggests the activity could cause significant harm to the wider ecosystem (including to biodiversity)?

e Have due diligence practices of the assessor been adopted that are aligned with the IFC Performance Standards, the Equator Principles or the World Bank Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines? This is not a mandatory question or step; however, it may simplify the assessment process and provide alignment with international frameworks used by investors.

EO-specific guiding questions (assessing DNSH to EO 1 - Climate 3.6.4 Change Mitigation): (Table 11)

53

## Page 58

Does the Activity avoid significant GHG emissions, incl. CO2, CHa,

N20, SF6, NF; and/or HFCs (using, for example, GHG Protocol

standards to support measurement)?

e Does the Activity avoid leading to or causing extensive deforestation?

e Does the Activity avoid impeding upstream and/or downstream

stakeholders from reducing their GHG emissions?

3.6.5 (Table 12)

Have remedial measures already started to be implemented at the

time of assessment?

e Does the Activity remediate risk and impacts through e.g., compliance with relevant (national) environmental law(s), internal policies and processes, implementation of additional measures that reduce harm? For example, is there an Environmental and Social Action plan in place with milestones, timelines, and measure to ensure and disclose compliance?

e What are these proposed actions and their contributions to remediation (e.g., avoidance, minimization, reduction)?

e Is there available technology for this Activity in place for compliant risk management measures against the adverse effects of climate change?

e If the Activity is new and has yet to commence, consider whether

there are planned remedial measures already in place to address

the potential harm.

Does the Activity no longer cause significant harm to other EOs at 3.6.5 the time of assessment? (Table 12) e Ifthe answer is no, there is still ‘residual harm’, which refers to any harm that remains even after compliance with the relevant environmental laws and Company’s processes and policies, as well as implementation of any other measures on top of compliance, then go to 3B. 3:6:5 (Table 12)

Are there concrete plans established for remedial measures to

address the residual harm within a defined timeframe?

e Do the planned remedial measures fall within 5 years? If longer than 5 years, is there independent verification of the credibility of the longer timeframe for example, by reference to similar benchmark projects?

e Whatis the expected output for results of tracking and monitoring

(e.g., annual reports, sustainability reports, other publications)?

54

## Page 59

Are the and assessments appropriate/proportionate to the business’ scale of operations and industry benchmarks?

e Who are the direct stakeholders involved in the Activity’s supply

chain? What are these proposed actions and their contributions to

remediation (e.g., avoidance, minimization, reduction)?

done

Does the company comply with relevant laws, rules, and ### regulations, which include the following:

e Promotion and protection of human rights > Compliance with the Philippines laws on human rights, labor rights, corruption, fair competition, the Constitution, and international conventions ratified by the Philippines. e Prevention of forced labour and protection of children’s rights >» Philippine laws including exploitation, trafficking in persons, violence, and abuse, as well as the core ILO conventions ratified by the Philippines. For example, this may include specific laws regarding employment of industrial homeworkers under DOLE 1974 and may be implied under other laws regarding confiscation of identity documents of migrant workers. Additionally, entities must comply with any nationally adopted laws under the ASEAN Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and the ASEAN Consensus on the Protection and Promotion of Rights of Migrant Workers (ASEAN, 2012). e Impact on People living Close to Investments » As companies undertake new investments, they must ensure targeted measures are taken to reduce the impact of those investments on vulnerable populations and the people affected. Given this, companies in the Philippines carrying out activities within ancestral domains/lands are required to undergo a free and prior informed consent (FPIC) process with indigenous cultural communities/indigenous peoples as part of the meaningful stakeholder consultation requirements (FAO, 2006). Entities must also comply with other national laws such as any adopting the ASEAN Declaration on ### Strengthening Social Protection (ASEAN, 2013). For example: (i) improved or restored livelihood and standard of living e.g., for displaced persons and for local household (ii) improved living conditions for physically displaced persons through the provisions of adequate housing with securities of tenure at resettlement sites

55

## Page 60

opportunities for indigenous peoples in a_ culturally appropriate manner.

56

## Page 61

Appendix 3: Use Cases on Climate Change Mitigation?®

1B. Activity enables

1A. Activity avoids / other stakehoiders

I 1. Climate Change reduces GHG and/or Activities to Seneweeceuneseceeeesenseuuneues eneeeeeueene eeeeee

* ### j@altigetion emissions mitigate climate : { .

### :

. I 2A. Activity does not *

### 2. Pre-mitigation ‘i cause potential Secerensereces I No : harm significant harm to . CLL ad bed other EOs I ee +» s

### : :

### :

### it 3B, Concrete plan exists to :

i 3A. Activity no longer causes 4

I 3. Post-mitigation i Significant farm to E0s implement remedial measures seeeeneeseneesesenneg harm I at the timo of t to address residual harm within H ESERASMCL: 5 years / 10 years verified 2

### H

### H

4A. Company meets minimum 4B. meets minimum H

it national standards relating to national standards relating to ,

4. Minimum Social i human rights, forced labour, human tights, forced labour, sevsenessesesenenceed I Safeguards child labour and impact on child labour and Impact on H

.

.

'

t peopie living close to people fiving close to

Example 1: Hydropower Background

An electricity utility company that is involved in power generation and the transmission and distribution of electricity to its customers is raising long-term capital for a 300MW hydropower plant. The company intends to issue a long-term financial instrument e.g., labelled bonds to increase support the financing of the hydropower plant.

Setting the Environmental Objective

### Threshold question for the Entity/Issuer: e Which of the Environmental Objectives is most relevant to the activity? e What is the strategic focus of the company doing the activity? e Which environmental objective is most aligned with the company’s strategic focus?

Answer

In determining the primarily environmental objective, the renewable energy hydropower project should align with the strategic focus of the Company which mitigates climate risks i.e., by substantially reducing GHG emissions and by generating the abundance of hydropower. The economic activities of reducing GHG emissions meet one of the environmental objectives i.e., climate change mitigation.

36 Adapted from case studies developed in the SRI Taxonomy for the Malaysian Capital Market.

57

## Page 62

Is the Activity an Excluded Activity? No, the activity is not in the excluded activity list.

Is the Activity in compliance with Philippine laws? The Activity complies with Philippine laws.

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? e Does the Activity avoid / reduce GHG emissions? How does the Activity substantially avoid or help reduce emissions?

Implementing a hydropower project shifts the fossil fuel-based emissions toa renewable source of emissions.

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? e Does the Activity enable other stakeholders and/or other Activities to mitigate climate change?

Not relevant as an enabling activity.

### EC1 I DONO SIGNIFICANT HARM

Activity does not cause potential significant harm to other EOs.

e Has the Activity been assessed as material in its potential to cause significant harm? Is the economic activity harmful to the healthy condition of ecosystems and biodiversity, including threatening the protection and conservation of natural areas, habitats, and species? Does the Activity avoid leading to or causing extensive deforestation?

The construction of hydropower plant of this size requires inundation of a large land area which may cause significant harm, if poorly managed due to the impact on biodiversity, as well as causing methane emission, which is a GHG emission with high global warming potential.

The company will mitigate GHG emissions from the inundation of a large land area by applying global best practices in hydropower plant development by meeting a power density of more than 5W/m2 and a GHG emissions intensity of less than 50g CO2e/kWh.

### REMEDIAL MEASURES TO TRANSITION

Have remedial measures already started to be implemented at the time of assessment? Has implementation of remedial measures been taken or implemented at the point of assessment?

58

## Page 63

No remedial measures have been implemented at the point of assessment.

Are there concrete plans established for remedial measures to address the

residual harm within a defined timeframe?

e In the absence of implementing remedial measures at the point of assessment, does it have credible remedial plans to mitigate the residual harm (for implementation and completion) within a period of five (5) years or an independent verification supports a claim that remediation will take less than 10 years. How does the business propose to minimize or eliminate the effects of its activity on the ecosystem and biodiversity and whether this can be remediated within the stipulated period?

The residual harm will be mitigated within the stated period, and with external ### verification, through global best practices in hydropower plant development by:

» conducting Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol (HSAP) and the Hydropower Sustainability ESG Gap Analysis Tool (HESG) that are developed through a collaborative forum comprising the International Hydropower Association (IHA), The Nature Conservancy, The World Bank Group and The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF); and addressing the gaps identified through an Environmental and Social Action

Plan (ESAP).

### WV

### MINIMUM SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS ¢ Does the entity comply with the SFTG minimum social safeguards? Does entity comply with relevant laws, rules and regulations which includes promotion of human rights, prevention of forced labor and protection of children’s rights?

Yes, the entity meets the SFTGs MSS.

Traffic light classification: The activity is considered AMBER. Example 2: Floating solar power plant Background

A forward-thinking company is dedicated to revolutionizing the renewable energy landscape through innovative and sustainable solutions. With a focus on harnessing the power of the sun, the company is at the forefront of the floating solar power industry. The company specializes in designing, implementing, and operating state-of-the-art floating solar power plants, contributing to a cleaner and more resilient energy future. The company intends to expand their floating power plant to contribute to renewable energy transition and obtain bank and capital market financing to support its projects.

59

## Page 64

Setting the Environmental Objective

### Threshold question for the Entity/Issuer: e Which of the Environmental Objectives is most relevant to the activity? e What is the strategic focus of the company doing the activity? e Which Environmental Objective is most aligned with the company’s strategic focus?

### Answer:

The company’s strategic focus is sustainability, clean energy, and environmental responsibility. The company emphasis on reducing carbon emissions, hence the Environmental Objective Mitigation is most suitable for the activity.

### Processes: Is the Activity an Excluded Activity? No, the activity is not in the excluded activity list.

Is the Activity in compliance with Philippine laws? The Activity complies with Philippine laws.

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? e Does the Activity avoid / reduce GHG emissions? How does the Activity substantially avoid or help reduce emissions?

While production of the materials to produce the solar plant produces emissions, the end product is renewable energy generation, which is lower than fossil fuel energy generation. The economic activity meets one of the environmental objectives on climate change mitigation by avoiding GHG emissions (E01).

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? e Does the Activity enable other stakeholders and/or other Activities to mitigate climate change?

Not relevant as an enabling activity.

### DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM

Activity does not cause potential significant harm to other EOs.

e Has the Activity been assessed as material in its potential to cause significant harm? Is the economic activity harmful to the healthy condition of ecosystems and biodiversity, including threatening the protection and conservation of natural areas, habitats, and species? (Additional). Does the Activity avoid leading to or causing extensive deforestation?

60

## Page 65

### Step Processes: Technically, the only mandatory DNSH assessment is against EO2 in this phase of the SFTG. However, the entity has optionally taken into consideration potential harm in respect of biodiversity and to ensure resilience of the project against physical risks of climate change adaptation.

The company has followed the Philippine Environmental Impact Assessment System processes. It does not cause significant harm to other environmental objectives (notably climate change adaptation) as best practices are applied including conduct of site environmental impact assessment prior to project construction and implementation of health, safety and environmental policies during the operations and maintenance stage, and an assessment of the vulnerability of the solar plant to physical risks from climate change has been found to be low. They have been engineered to withstand significance rises and falls in water levels as well as strong winds and heavy rain. In fact, they have found to be a potential emergency source of power in the event of land-based impacts of a disaster disrupting terrestrial power sources.

An assessment of the biodiversity of the area has been conducted and the proposed design of the solar power plant has been found to present low risks to biodiversity in the area of coverage as it is being constructed on a previously human-made reservoir.

### EC2 I REMEDIAL MEASURES TO TRANSITION - NOT APPLICABLE

### EC3 I MINIMUM SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS e Does the entity comply with the SFTG minimum social safeguards?

Yes, meet the SFTGs MSS.

Traffic-light Classification: The economic activity is classified as GREEN.

Example 3: Biogas Power Plant Background

A dynamic and innovative company at the forefront of sustainable energy solutions, with a strong commitment to environmental responsibility and a focus on harnessing the potential of biogas. The company is dedicated to transforming organic waste into a clean and renewable source of energy. The company plan to implement biogas power plant project, providing clean energy solution to local communities and industries. This project involves the construction and operation of facilities that harness biogas through anaerobic digestion process, ensuring a closed-loop system that maximise energy efficiency.

61

## Page 66

Setting the Environmental Objective

### Threshold question for the Entity/Issuer:

Which of the Environmental Objectives is most relevant to the activity? What is the strategic focus of the company doing the activity?

Which Environmental Objective is most aligned with the company’s strategic focus?

### Answer:

The strategic focus of the company is providing sustainable solutions through conversion of organic waste into biogas. Implementing waste-to-energy projects that align with circular economy projection. As the primary driver for the company's biogas power plant projects, mitigating climate change through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions directly aligns with the strategic focus on providing sustainable energy solutions.

### EC1

### Processes: Is the Activity an Excluded Activity? No, the activity is not in the excluded activity list.

Is the Activity in compliance with Philippine laws? The Activity complies with Philippine laws.

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? e Does the Activity avoid / reduce GHG emissions? How does the Activity substantially avoid or help reduce emissions?

The economic activity meets the environmental objectives on climate change mitigation by reducing GHG emissions (EO1). It captures methane produced from palm oil mill effluent (POME) and is expected to remove 80 percent of GHG emissions that will be emitted from POME if left untreated.

Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Mitigation? e Does the Activity enable other stakeholders and/or other Activities to mitigate climate change?

Not relevant as an enabling activity.

### DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM

Activity does not cause potential significant harm to other EOs.

POME is a by-product of the palm milling process. It does not cause significant harm to other environmental objectives as best practices are applied including the conduct of site environmental impact assessment prior to project construction and

62

## Page 67

### Processes: implementation of health, safety and environmental policies during the operations and maintenance stage.

### REMEDIAL MEASURES TO TRANSITION - NOT APPLICABLE

### EC3 I MINIMUM SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS

e Does the entity comply with the SFTG minimum social safeguards? Yes, meet the SFTG’s MSS.

Traffic-light Classification: The economic activity is classified as GREEN.

NOTE: For example, and as an illustration, the issuance of Bonds under the Philippine SEC’s GSS and SLB framework, the Bonds issuance, e.g., Green Bond, needs to comply with the SEC’s regulatory requirements as provided in the respective SEC’s GSS and SLB guidelines. While the SEC framework provides lists of eligible green and social project categories, nonetheless, the Bond issuer may voluntarily apply the principles under the respective components of the SFTG to assess if such issuance is aligned with the Taxonomy framework. In addition, the considerations for the environmental objectives could provide additional guidance in determining eligible green projects (e.g., in determining substantial contribution).

In this example, although the hydropower plant project is classified as AMBER, the project could still be financed through the issuance of the Green Bond because it promotes the use of renewable energy and is aligned with the categories of the eligible green projects in the SEC’s GSS framework. In addition, the company has adopted best practices to mitigate the harm caused to the environment. The floating solar power plant and biogas power plant projects identified for the Green Bond issuance support the environmental objective of climate change mitigation (EO 1). In addition, the solar power plant and biogas power plant projects do not cause significant harm to the other environmental objectives based on the Guiding Questions. Hence, the Green Bond issuance could be considered to be aligned with the SFTG.

63

## Page 68

Appendix 4: Use Cases on Climate Change Adaptation

4A. Activity involves

1B. Activity enables

the implementation of cir cas cin

1. Climate Change measures toincrease 9% andlor Activities to ROUTER EEE T ERO R SERRE EERE PERE E EEE SEER RE EEE

Adaptation Steere de increase resilience to aha climate change

2A. Activity does not

2. Pre-mitigation aa cause potential harm i significant harm to MH ### other EOs :

ctivity uses 38. Concrete plan exists to

sails ade a ged implement remedial measures

significant harm to other Os at oe ss eesiciial hate wha the ime of Bssbssirert 5 yoars / 10 years verified

3. Post-mitigation harm

v v 4A. Company meets minimum 48. Company meets minimum I national standards relating to national standards relating to _4. Minimum Social human rights, forced labour, human rights, forced labour, ”

I Safequards child labour and impact on child jabour and impact on people living close to people living close to investments investments

¥v

Real Estate and Construction?’

Background

ee cusserecepe Ye

>

The Company is a land developer with operations across ASEAN. The Company has recently acquired a plot of land in the Philippines, which contains a dilapidated office building and several informal settlements. The Company is seeking financing to develop the land area by demolishing the dilapidated office building and constructing a multi- towered office complex. The Company procures the construction materials (concrete, steel, wood, etc.) from an accredited supplier and enlists specialised services (roofing, plumbing, electricians, etc.) from a subcontractor for the activity. Both supplier and

subcontractor are based in the Philippines.

### The company’s sustainability practices and actions are:

e Increasing the resilience of developments to the effects of climate change e Protecting and restoring local biodiversity through native tree conservation,

moving/re-planting, and planting in the design

e Increasing resource efficiency, by reducing resource use, upcycling, and

recycling e Ensuring the health and safety of employees in and out of work

37 Adapted from ASEAN Taxonomy Version 2

64

## Page 69

Setting the Environmental Objective

### Threshold question for the Entity/Issuer:

e Has the government issued any guidance (including policies, roadmaps, and guidelines) which indicates that this Activity contributes to a specific EO under their NDC, sectoral policies or national plan?

e For investors, what is their priority and investment strategy? Which EO(s) is most aligned with its priority and strategy?

### Answer:

Given the vulnerability of the Philippines to the effects of climate change, including droughts, heatwaves and flooding, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources has led the Inter-Agency Committee on Climate Change to put together the National Strategy for Climate Change Adaptation. A focus of this action plan is infrastructure, including investments in public and private buildings of all types. This will in part involve designing and constructing infrastructure according to the country’s guidelines on climate resilient buildings. Therefore, climate change adaptation (EOZ) is most aligned to the priorities of the government of the Philippines.

For investors, they are focused on realigning their exposure into sustainable and responsible investments. Understanding the Philippines’ vulnerability to climate change-related extreme weather conditions, they are seeking investments that improve Manila’s resilience to climate change, including the construction of infrastructure with climate resilient features like drainage systems and passive cooling. Therefore, EOQ2 is most aligned with their priorities and strategies. Climate Change Adaptation is therefore the investors’ primary Environmental Objective.

Is the Activity an Excluded Activity? No, the activity is not in the excluded activity list.

0.2 I Is the Activity in compliance with Philippine laws? The Activity complies with Philippine laws.

1A_ I Does the Activity contribute to Climate Change Adaptation? e Does the Activity implement measures to increase the Company’s resilience to climate change? e How does the activity contribute to Company’s resilience against adverse physical impacts of current and future climate change?

The office complex will use passive cooling methods, like green roofing and landscaping with native trees. This helps reduce temperatures within and around the buildings, as well as manage the Urban Heat Island Effect, hence increase resilience to

65

## Page 70

extreme heat. The construction of the office complex will also involve building extensive drainage systems and a decent percentage of permeable surfaces. Given that Manila is prone to flooding, this infrastructure will enable an increase of the Company’s portfolio’s resilience to floods.

e Does the Activity avoid leading to an increase in the vulnerability of human or natural systems because of climate change and climate variability- related risks?

The building is constructed with climate change resilience in mind, it generally does not lead to an increase in vulnerability to the effects of climate change.

e Does the activity enable other stakeholders and/or activities to increase resilience to climate change?

Yes, the activity implements measures that increase the Company’s resilience to climate change.

### DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM

2A I Activity does not cause potential significant harm to other EOs. e Hasan EIA been conducted and approved on the Activity?

Yes

e Whatare the results of the EIA and where do the impact of the activity lie?

Technically, the assessment at this phase of the SFTG is only mandated for significant harm to CCM. The buildings will not be dedicated to the extraction, storage, transport of manufacture of fossil fuels. Buildings will be constructed in accordance with the

Department of Energy’s energy efficiency guidelines, including the use of LED lighting throughout the buildings, double glazed windows, and a green roof. It therefore is not considered to cause significant harm to EO1.

The results of the EIA highlight biodiversity protection through conservation of on-site native trees as part of the building design, moving/replanting if incorporation to the current design is not possible, and planting native trees. However, the demolition and construction of the new office building could potentially generate vast amounts of construction waste.

The activity causes potential significant harm, and the entity has optionally decided to take this into consideration in assessing taxonomy alignment.

### REMEDIAL MEASURES TO TRANSITION

2B I Have remedial measures already started to be implemented at the time of assessment?

66

## Page 71

Yes. To minimize the amount of waste bound for landfills and promote the establishment of a circular economy, the Company has measures in place e.g., purchasing mostly recycled materials, and recycling any construction waste they generate. When procuring construction materials, the Company purchases most of their inputs from companies that upcycle construction waste to produce new construction materials. Any construction waste generated is also separated and sent to

in-house or third-party recycling companies. Construction of the new building will adhere to the circular economy standards which are laid out in the Company sustainability policy.

Does the Activity no longer cause significant harm to other EOs at the time of assessment?

Yes. Harm has been mitigated, as recycled materials will be primarily used, and construction waste will be recycled.

### MINIMUM SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS e Does the Company meet minimum national standards relating to human rights, forced labour, child labour and impact on people living close to investments?

The activity is carried out by the Company based in the Philippines. A supplier and a subcontractor are also involved by providing materials and services, respectively, without which the activity cannot be carried out. Therefore, the social aspect assessment will cover the Company, supplier, and subcontractor. The organizations are based in the same location; hence they will be assessed according to Philippine legislations and regulations.

The Company’s, supplier’s and subcontractor’s operations meet the relevant Philippine ### legislations and regulations on: > Respecting human rights (Constitution of the Philippines) >» Prevention of forced and child labour (Labour Code of the Philippines, Expanded Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2012, and Special Protection of Children Against Abuse, Exploitation and Discrimination Act)

The Company, supplier and subcontractor uphold the rights and principles indicated in ### the AHRD and ACPPRMW such as but not limited to the following: > Employment of policies and guidelines that respect freedom of association and right to collective bargaining in line with Paragraph 27(2) of the AHRD on “right to form trade unions and join the trade union of his or her choice for the protection of his or her interests”. >» Issuance of written employment contracts that clearly stipulate the basic terms of employment in line with Paragraph 14 of the ACPPRMW on “right to be issued an employment contract or proper documentation by relevant authorities/ bodies and/or employers with clear and basic terms of employment”.

67

## Page 72

Code of Ethics.

However, the Company’s operations do not meet the relevant Philippine legislations and ### regulations on: > Impact on people living close to investments (Department of Natural Resources and Environment Administrative Order No. 30 Series of 2003)

The Company at present does not have any avenues for affected groups to raise grievances, despite the potential for social harm in land development (e.g., displacement of nearby communities) which is a violation of Paragraph 12 of the ADSSP on advocating “strategies that promote the coverage, availability, comprehensiveness, quality, equitability, affordability, and sustainability of various social protection services.

Traffic-light Classification: The economic activity is classified as RED.

68

## Page 73

Appendix 5: Examples of Industry Standards with Certifications and Verification

Examples taken from various sources, including the IFC Sustainable MSME Finance Reference Guide

Standard or Certification title

Relevant objectives

Independent verification?

Management Systems

and Reporting

Agriculture, Forestry Land Use ### (AFOLU)

Agriculture and I Palm Oil

Agriculture - Food products, animal feed and biofuels

### ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems

### ISO 45001:2018 Occupational health and safety management

systems

GHG Protocol

Roundtable Sustainable Palm Oil ### (RSPO)

on

International Sustainability & Carbon

Multiple

Multiple

Multiple

QO Protect biodiversity Resource resilience No negative impact on communities’ social economic being

and well-

Climate change mitigation Protect biodiversity

Yes - formal audit and certification process by independent auditors.

Yes - formal audit and certification process by independent

auditors.

No - adopted international accounting tool to understand, quantify and manage greenhouse gas emissions

but widely

Yes - formal membership and certification process by independent certification bodies approved by the ### RSPO.

formal and

Yes -

registration certification process by independent

69

## Page 74

Independent verification?

Standard or Certification title Certification ### (ISCC)

Relevant objectives

certification bodies approved by ISCC.

Resource

resilience

Q No negative impact on communities’ social and economic well-

being

Agriculture Better Cotton Protect Yes - formal Cotton Initiative (BCI) biodiversity membership and QO Resource certification process resilience by independent Q No negative I third-party verifiers impact on I approved by the BCI. communities’ social and economic well-

being

Agriculture Forest Protect Yes - formal

Rubber Stewardship biodiversity registration and Council (FSC) I OQ Resource certification process

Certified resilience by independent

Natural Rubber I Q) No negative I certification bodies

impact on I approved by

communities’ Assurance Services

social and I International (ASI)

economic’ well- I for FSC.

being

Yes formal

Bonsucro Protect

Agriculture

Certification biodiversity registration and (Production and I O) Resource certification process Chain of resilience by independent Custody) Q) No negative I certification bodies

impact on I approved by

communities’ Bonsucro.

social and

economic well-

being

Comply with law

Agriculture - I UTZ Certified Protect Yes - formal Coffee, Cocoa, biodiversity registration and Tea, Hazelnut OQ) Resource certification process

by independent certification bodies

resilience

70

## Page 75

Standard or Certification title

Sub-sector Relevant objectives

Sector Group

### Q

No negative

impact on communities’

social and economic well-

being

Agriculture - I Rainforest Q) Climate change Food and I Alliance adaptation farmed QO) Protect products Incl. biodiversity Coffee, Cocoa, QO Resource Tea resilience Q) No negative impact on communities’ social and economic well-

being

Agriculture -—- I Fairtrade Q) Protect

Food and I Certified biodiversity

farmed QO) Resource

products Incl. I Sustainable Rice resilience

Coffee, Cocoa Platform (SRP) I Q No negative impact on communities’ social and economic well-

being

Q Protect biodiversity

Q) Resource resilience

No negative impact on communities’ social economic being

Forestry Forest QO) Protect Stewardship biodiversity

Roundtable for Responsible Soy ### (RTRS)

Agriculture Soy

### Q

and well-

Independent verification?

approved by UTZ (applicable to both UTZ and Rainforest Alliance certification).

Yes formal registration and certification process by independent certification bodies approved by UTZ (applicable to both UTZ and Rainforest Alliance certification).

Yes formal registration and certification process

by independent certification body FLOCERT for Fairtrade.

SRP focuses on environmental and labor aspects of rice cultivation and production.

Yes - formal registration and

certification process by independent accreditation and certification bodies, approved by RTRS

- formal and

Yes registration

71

## Page 76

Forestry

= 7 7

Fisheries - Aquaculture

eo Bee

Standard or

Certification title

Council

Relevant objectives Independent

verification?

(FSC) Resource certification process

Forest resilience by independent Management Q) No negative I certification bodies Certification impact on I approved by and Chain of communities’ Assurance Services Custody social and I International (ASI) Certification economic well- I for FSC.

being

Comply with law

Programme for Protect Yes - formal

the biodiversity registration and Endorsement of I Q Resource certification process Forest resilience by independent Certification QO No negative I certification bodies (PEFC) impact on I approved by PEFC. communities’ social and I Available in economic well- I countries with being PEFC-endorsed national certification

systems.

Capture Marine Protect Yes - formal

Stewardship biodiversity registration and

Council (MSC) I} Q Resource certification process

Certification resilience by independent Q Comply with law I Conformity

Assessment Bodies (CABs) approved by ### MSC

Yes

Capture Protect Yes - formal

Fairtrade biodiversity registration and Fisheries Resource certification process Standard resilience by independent QO No negative I certification body impact on I FLOCERT for communities’ Fairtrade. social and economic well- being OQ Comply with law

Aquaculture Q) Protect Yes - formal Stewardship biodiversity registration and

72

## Page 77

Standard or Relevant objectives Independent Certification verification? title Council (ASC) I Resource certification process Certification resilience by independent Q No negative I certification bodies impact on I approved by communities’ Assurance Services social and I International (ASI) economic well- I for ASC. being

Sub-sector

Sector Group

Building Climate change I Yes - formal Research mitigation Climate I registration and Establishment change adaptation I certification process Environmental I Protect biodiversity I by independent Assessment Resource resilience I certification bodies Method No negative impact I approved by (BREEAM) on communities’ I BREEAM.

social and economic well-being

Construction and I Building Real Estate I Construction Buildings and real estate

Leadership in I Climate change I Yes - formal Energy and I mitigation Climate I registration and Environmental I change adaptation I certification process Design (LEED) Protect biodiversity I by independent Resource resilience I certification bodies No negative impact I administered by the on communities’ I Green Business social and economic I Certification Inc. for well-being LEED

Buildings Construction and real estate

Yes - formal registration and certification process by Green Business

Climate change mitigation Resource resilience

Excellence in Design for Greater Efficiencies

Buildings Construction and real estate

(EDGE) Certification Incorporated ### (GBCI). EDGE established by the International

Finance Corporation ### (IFC)

Climate change I No -_ voluntary mitigation Climate I initiative adopted by change adaption companies to reduce GHG emissions in line with Paris-

Transportation Transport General Science and Fuel I General Based Targets Transport Initiative (SBTI) Transport

73

## Page 78

Standard or Certification title

— Sector Guidance & Tools

Energy, including I Electricity Science Based I Climate change upstream production - I Targets mitigation

General Initiative (SBT1) I Climate change Power Sector I adaption Guidance & Tool

Relevant objectives Independent

verification?

aligned, science- based targets.

No -_ voluntary initiative adopted by companies to reduce GHG emissions in line with Paris- aligned, science- based targets.

Electricity Hydropower Climate change I Accredited assessor

production International adaptation Protect I qualification Hydropower biodiversity No I managed by the IHA Association negative impact on I for auditors (IHA) communities’ social I conducting project Hydropower and economic well- I assessment. Sustainability being Assessment

Protocol (HSAP)

The IAEA _ Safety Standards support the implementation of binding

Electricity production

Nuclear power International

Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)

No negative impact on communities’ social and economic well-being

Safety Comply with law international Standards and instruments and Nuclear Security national safety Series infrastructure, typically ratified via national nuclear

safety law and regulation.

Yes - formal registration and certification process by independent certification body FLOCERT for Fairtrade,

Resource resilience No negative impact on communities’ social and economic well-being

Comply with law

Fairtrade Certified Resource

Apparel and home goods

Industrial Manufacturing

Textile Exchange Standard

Textile I Exchange Standard offers various responsible textile standards that are often specific to the textile.

Bluesign Certification

74

## Page 79

Standard or Certification title

Independent verification?

Sub-sector

Sector Group Relevant objectives

Bluesign offers apparel and textile certifier focusing on reducing the use of chemicals.

Manufacturing I Responsible Protect biodiversity I Responsible Care is

- Chemicals Care No negative impact I a voluntary on communities’ I initiative under social and economic I which companies, well-being through their

National Associations work together to

continually improve their performance - refer to national schemes recognized under the Responsible Care program.

Enabling Sectors

Information and Communications Technology

Multiple

Climate change mitigation

Resource resilience

Waste Circular Economy

Climate change

mitigation

Carbon Capture and Sequestration

75

## Page 80

Appendix 6: Non-exhaustive list of potentially eligible projects or activities for MSMEs38

Examples of potentially eligible projects of activities are listed below. They are taken from the IFC Sustainable MSME Reference Guide, which focused on five specific sectors - agribusiness, textile, tourism, other services, and other manufacturing. These are examples only and do not constitute an automatic endorsement of alignment under the

### SFTG. Sector Project/Activity Mitigation I Adaptation I Suggested Metric Agribusiness Ds O”o

Certification Document

Aquaculture with a certification that confirms that the investment does not undermine the function and resilience of ecosystems, such as mangroves, salt marshes, seagrasses, and critical habitats

Certification Document

Certification Document

Production or trade of agricultural products certified under Rainforest Alliance Efficient cold chain with low Global Warming Potential (GWP) refrigerant (e.g., ammonia)

Avoided food losses based on annual capacity or use of equipment (ton/y) Biomethane collected and used (ton/y or MMBTU/y) Annual water savings (m3/y and % of the total water consumption) Annual Renewable Energy Consumed or

Reduction by more than 20% in water consumption per ton of product over the life of the project

Renewable energy applications (solar, wind, sustainable biomass) in power generation,

38 Source: IFC Sustainable MSME Finance Reference Guide (Chapter III. Eligible sustainable MSME Use of Proceeds)

76

## Page 81

Project/Activity Adaptation

Z pumping, drying, heat and/or

steam generation

Electric vehicles

Efficient irrigation - efficient water allocation, water recycling, sustainable reuse of graywater, rainwater harvesting, and utilization of native species that have water consumption, conditional to avoid depletion of natural water

promote

low

resources

Climate adaptation and resilience d measures that also conserve , and/or restore ecosystems (for example, drought-resistant seeds, nutrient cycling, water

levees, water

ecotone floodplain restoration, storage with watershed restoration or conservation - all projects that make agribusiness more resilient to threats like flooding and drought)

storage,

Reduction in synthetic fertilizer use by at least 20% over the life of the project to reduce downstream eutrophication, and to promote use of biofertilizer and other organic solutions (for example, composting) Switching from monocropping to diversified cropping systems, including intercropping and use

Suggested Metric

Generated (MWh/y); ### GHG emissions savings (tCO2eq/y) Avoided fuel consumption (m3/y) or avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y) Annual water savings (m3/y and % of the total consumption)

water

Increase in agricultural land using more drought resistant crops (hectares); Reduction in land-loss from inundation and/or coastal erosion (km?) Annual fertilizer savings (ton/y and % of the total fertilizer used)

Area covered

by sustainable land

and

77

## Page 82

Sector

of cover crops to improve resilience and soil quality

Significant reduction of tillage or implementation of no-till practices Cultivation — of naturalized species that can more readily adapt to variations in production cycles, water quality/quantity, and temperatures Use of sustainable agricultural practices/varieties/technology and/or infrastructure that increases crop yields/quality on existing land without increasing the environmental footprint

native or

Adoption of practices and/ or technologies for zero deforestation or other positive effects on biodiversity Textiles

Tourism

### NW ### MS

os or trade of sustainable hemp, wool, organic cotton, soy silk, bamboo fabrics, jute, corn fiber Recirculation and water reduction in water consumption per unit of product (e.g., m3 of saved water per m2 of fabric) by more than 20% over the life of the

rs. ect

Mi _ vehicles (bikes, boats, passenger vehicles)

Project/Activity Mitigation

Suggested Metric water resources management practices (ha and % of the total area) Hectares under no tillage (ha/y) Area covered (acres); Number native naturalized

of or

species Additional production (ton/y) without increasing ### GHG emissions Avoided deforestation

(ha/y)

Units of production

(e.g., ton/y)

Annual water savings (m3/y and % of total water consumed)

Avoided fuel consumption

(m3/y) or avoided GHG

78

## Page 83

Sustainable or ecotourism ventures that meet established standards for best practices, conserve or restore habitats or avoid increasing encroachment on habitat, and work to reduce carbon emissions Other Services

emissions I__I pCO2eq/7) Certification document

Avoided fuel consumption (m3/y); Avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y) Annual renewable energy consumed (MWh/y); ### GHG emissions savings (tCO2eq/y)

Electric vehicles (bikes, boats, passenger vehicles)

Renewable energy applications for power, heat, drying, etc.

savings (MWh/y) Avoided fuel consumption (m3/y); Avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y)

Waste collection, recycling and management projects that recover or reuse materials and waste (only if net emission reductions can be demonstrated)

Energy efficiency improvement in lighting, appliances,

materials recycled

(ton/y)

79

## Page 84

(MWh/y); Avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y) Energy savings (MWh/y); Avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y) Energy savings (MWh/y); Avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y) Avoided discharge of untreated water (m3/y); Wastewater collected or treated (m3/y) Avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y) Number charging, hydrogen, or sustainable biofuel stations Energy savings (MWh/y); Avoided GHG emissions (tCO2eq/y) Avoided GHG emissions

(tCO2eq/y)

equipment, management systems

Substitution of existing heating or cooling systems for buildings by co-generation plants that generate electricity in addition to providing heating or cooling

Optimize the use of compressed air to address inefficiencies such as leaks in the distribution network and_ oversized air compressors

Treatment of — wastewater, including wastewater collection networks

Waste management projects that capture or combust methane emissions Charging stations and _ other infrastructure for electric vehicles, hydrogen or dedicated sustainable biofuel fueling

of

Projects producing components, equipment or __ infrastructure dedicated to the renewable and energy efficiency sectors, or low- carbon technologies

Measures in existing supply chains dedicated to improvements in energy efficiency or resource efficiency upstream or downstream,

80

## Page 85

Suggested Metric

Sector Project/Activity Adaptation

leading to an overall reduction in

GHG emissions

Energy efficiency label

Equipment or appliances with an energy efficiency label and score A ona scale of A-F

81 