# 1188

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 4188 Series of 2024

Subject. Amendments to Persons Exempted from Attending the Seminar on Corporate Governance for Board of Directors

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 141 dated 1 February 2024 approved the amendments to the eligibility requirements for directors to exempt incumbent Cabinet Secretaries, who serve as directors/chairman in government financial institutions in an ex-officio capacity, from the required corporate governance seminar under Section 132 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB).

Section 1. Section 132 of the MORB, as amended by Circular Nos. 1129 dated 12 November 2021 and 1154 dated 14 September 2022, on qualifications ### of a director is hereby amended to read as follows:

### 132 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ### XXX Qualifications of a director. ### a. A director shall have the following minimum qualifications: ### XXX

(2) He must have attended a seminar on corporate governance for board of directors. xxx Provided, That the following persons are exempted from complying with the aforementioned ### requirement:

(a) Xxx; (b) Xxx;

(c) Incumbent Cabinet Secretaries in the Philippine Government who serve as_ directors/chairman in government financial institutions in an _ ex-officio capacity; or

(d) xxx

### XXX

Section 2. This Circular shall take effect fifteen (15) calendar days following its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

on

### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Governor

AA February 2024 