# 1192

## Page 1

Py ) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1192 Series of 2024

Subject: Amendments to foreign exchange regulations covering foreign investments

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 322 dated 21 March 2024, approved the following rules and regulations ### governing foreign exchange (FX) transactions:

SECTION 7. The following provisions of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual, issued under Circular No. 645 dated 13 February 2009, as amended) are ### further revised as follows:

### “PART ONE. RULES ON FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSACTIONS Chapter I ### GENERAL PROVISIONS x XX

5. Processing fees. Applications for approval/registration of foreign/foreign currency loans/borrowings, inward investments and other FX transactions filed with the BSP-IOD shall be free of charge.

### XXX

7. Post-verification of FX transactions and reports may be undertaken by the BSP to verify compliance with the provisions of the FX Manual and/or the condition/s imposed on the approval/registration/authority granted/issued by the BSP and for Monitoring purposes. A violation of any of the provisions of the FX Manual and/or the condition/s imposed on_ the approval/registration/authority granted/issued by the BSP may be a ground for cancellation/revocation thereof.

8. The terms used herein are as defined in the “Glossary of Terms” hereof unless otherwise indicated in specific sections of the FX Manual.

### XXX

## Page 2

### PART TWO. CURRENT ACCOUNT TRANSACTIONS Chapter I

### NON-TRADE CURRENT ACCOUNT TRANSACTIONS, PESO DEPOSIT ### ACCOUNTS OF NON-RESIDENTS AND CROSS-BORDER TRANSFER ### OF LOCAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES

### XXX

Section 2. Sale of FX for Non-Trade Current Account Transactions

1. Sale of FX for Non-Trade Current Account Transactions of Residents with Non-Residents. AABs/AAB forex corps may sell FX without need for prior BSP approval to cover payments for non-trade current account transactions (other than those related to foreign/foreign currency loans and investments) listed under Appendix 1, subject to submission of the following to the FX selling ### institution:

a. XXX b. XXX Cc. XXX

FX sold by AABs/AAB forex corps for non-trade current account ### transactions shall either be:

i. XXX ii. xxx

The remitting bank shall report the FX remittances to BSP under the relevant schedule/s of FX Form 1/1A, as applicable, based on instructions of, and the purpose declared by, the FX purchaser.

FX sold for travel and medical expenses abroad not yet incurred, and sales proceeds of emigrant’s domestic assets where the emigrant is still in the country, may be held in cash, or directly remitted to the intended beneficiary, or credited to the FX purchaser’s FCDU account in accordance with items (i) and (ii) above.

2. Sale of FX to Non-Resident Tourists and Balikbayan. AABs/AAB forex corps may sell FX to non-resident tourists and balikbayan to the extent of the amount of FX shown to have been sold for pesos by the non-residents to AABs/AAB forex corps. Departing non-resident tourists and balikbayan may reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos up to a maximum of USD10,000 or

Page 2 of 12

## Page 3

its equivalent in other foreign currency, calculated at prevailing exchange rates, without showing proof of previous sale of FX for pesos. Section3. Peso Deposit Accounts! of Non-Residents ### XXX 2. Sale of FX to Non-Residents for Peso Deposit Accounts ### XXX

c. The remitting depository bank shall report the FX remittances xxx.

For remittance arising from Item 1.h, the FX remittance shall be

reported to the BSP, through the IOD, using the prescribed form (Annex Y) within two (2) banking days from date of actual remittance.

Section 4. Cross-Border Transfer of Local and Foreign Currencies

### XXX

Chapter II ### FOREIGN MERCHANDISE TRADE TRANSACTIONS

### XXX

### A. IMPORT TRADE TRANSACTIONS

### XXX

Section9. Letter of Credit (LC) ### XXX 2. Deferred L/Cs shall be governed by the pertinent provisions of Part Three, Chapter 1 (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees) hereof. For this purpose, deferred L/Cs shall refer to those with payment terms

of more than one year reckoned from initial shipment date.

### XXX

### PART THREE. FINANCIAL ACCOUNT TRANSACTIONS

1 xxx

Page 3 of 12

## Page 4

Chapter I ### LOANS/BORROWINGS AND GUARANTEES

### XXX

Section 23. Public Sector? Loans/Borrowings - xX XX

3. Applications for approval of foreign/foreign currency loans/ borrowings shall be submitted using the prescribed form (Annex D.1), ### supported by required documents/information:

### XXX

4. Proceeds of foreign/foreign currency loans/borrowings (including those from issuances of bonds/notes/other debt instruments) of the National Government, its political subdivisions and instrumentalities, and GOCCs? shall be deposited with the BSP pending utilization, pursuant to Section 113 of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 7653 (The New Central Bank Act) dated 14 June 1993, as amended.

### XXX

Chapter II

### INWARD INVESTMENTS

Section 32. General Policy. xxx ### 1. XXX ### 2. XXX

A Bangko Sentral Registration Document (BSRD) shall evidence the BSP registration of investments.*

### XXX

### XXX

3 For the purpose of this provision, GOCCs shall refer to those created by special laws. The term excludes government financial institutions such as but not limited to Development Bank of the Philippines, Land Bank of the Philippines and Al-Amanah Islamic Investment Bank of the Philippines, corporations created under the provisions of the Corporation Law (Act No. 1459, as amended) or the Revised Corporation Code of the Philippines (Republic Act No. 11232), and private corporations taken over by the GOCCs.

* Except those covered by Section 37 for which a BSRD shall no longer be issued

Page 4 of 12

## Page 5

Section 33. Inward Foreign Investments> in Instruments Issued by Residents. xxx

1. Xxx ### 2. XXX

3. The following investment instruments may fall under the category of foreign direct investments or foreign portfolio investments depending on the degree of control or influence of the investor in the investee firm® which can be determined regardless of the investment ### instruments as defined under Sections 33.1 and 33.2:

a. XXX

b. Debt securities (e.g., notes, bonds and non-participating preferred shares) issued by private sector residents that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees) - (i) not listed; and (ii) listed at an onshore exchange [e.g., PSE, Philippine Dealing and Exchange Corporation ### (PDEX)];

### XXX

Section 35. Other Forms of Investments. For registration purposes, these refer to investments by non-residents in instruments issued by residents and non-residents which are not covered by Sections 33, 34 and the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees), and not contrary to applicable laws, rules and regulations.

Section 36. Registration with BSP

1. The following inward investments shall be registered with ### the BSP:

Investment/Instrument Section

### XXX I XXX XXX

Cc. Debt securities issued onshore by private sector residents I Section 33.3.b.(i) that are not listed at an onshore exchange and not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees)

### XXX I XXX XXX

g. Instruments issued by residents and non-residents which are I Section 35 not covered by Sections 33, 34 and the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees), and not contrary to applicable laws, rules and regulations

### XXX I XXX XXX

### XXX ### 6 XXX

Page 5 of 12

## Page 6

### XXX

Section 37. Registration with the BSP through AABs

1. Investments in the following instruments shall be registered upon reporting thereof by the registering AAB to the BSP; Provided, that the applicable guidelines on registration/reporting of investments and supporting documents (Appendices 10.B and 10.C) are duly ### complied with:

Investment/Instrument Section

a. I Debt securities issued onshore by the National Government I Section 33.2 and other public sector entities

b. I Equity securities issued onshore by residents that are listed at I Section 33.3.a.(ii) an onshore exchange (e.g., PSE)

c. I Debt securities issued onshore by private sector residents that I Section 33.3.b.(ii) are listed at an onshore exchange and not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees)

d. I ETFs issued/created onshore by residents Section 33.3.c e. I PDRs that are listed at an onshore exchange Section 33.3.e.(ii) f. I Peso time deposits with an AAB with a maturity of at least I Section 33.4

90 days

g. I Equity securities issued onshore or offshore by non-residents I Section 34.1 that are listed at an onshore exchange

h. I Debt securities issued onshore by non-residents that are I Section 34.2.b listed at an onshore exchange

i. I Instruments under Section 37.1 (a-h) used as collateral I - involving transfer of legal/beneficial ownership of the collateral to the non-resident investor’

2. A registering AAB is a bank with authority to operate an FCDU that has been designated by the non-resident investor to report and monitor his investments. The registering AAB shall regularly report all transactions, including new/additional investment/s of a non- resident investor, using the prescribed forms within the prescribed deadline as provided in Appendix 10.B.

3. FX inwardly remitted to fund investments under Section 37.1 must be converted to pesos with AABs/AAB forex corps except if investment is required to be funded by FX.

### 4. XXX

Section 38. Servicing of Investments®

1. Xxx

7 Investments in instruments under Section 37.1 (a-h) arising from return/refund of collateral shall be registered with the BSP through AABs. ### 8 XXX

Page 6 of 12

## Page 7

2. AABs/AAB forex corps may sell to the non-resident investor or his authorized representative (whether resident or non-resident) the equivalent FX of the peso sales/divestment proceeds and related earnings from BSP-registered investments, upon submission to the FX selling institution of a duly accomplished and signed Application to Purchase FX (Annex A), with the document/s listed under Appendix 1.4.

3. a. FX sold by AABs/AAB forex corps for repatriation of capital and remittance of related earnings shall be directly remitted to the account (whether onshore or offshore) of the non-resident investor or his intended beneficiary on the date of FX sale, except as indicated in item (b) below.

b. In the case of investments in instruments under Sections 33.1 (foreign direct investment) and 33.3.a.(i) (equity securities not listed at an onshore exchange), FX sold may also be credited to the FCDU account of the non-resident investor's — resident agent/authorized representative with the FX selling AAB (or another AAB) for: (i) future reinvestment onshore; or (ii) eventual remittance to the intended beneficiary; Provided, that the applicant purchaser shall certify that: (i) the crediting of funds to the FCDU account of the designated resident agent/authorized representative is duly authorized by the non-resident investor; (ii) the FX shall be used for the declared purpose; (iii) funds credited to the FCDU account shall eventually be remitted to the non-resident investor or his intended beneficiary unless intended to be _ reinvested onshore; and (iv) the applicant purchaser shall include the purpose of the remittance in the remittance instructions to the remitting bank.

Cc. XXX ### 4. XXX

5. AABs/AAB forex corps may likewise sell FX upon submission to the FX selling institution of a duly accomplished and signed Application to Purchase FX (Annex A), with the documents listed ### under Appendix 1.4, for the following:

a. Settlement of FX obligations/payables of residents to non-resident investors relative to FX-denominated equity and debt securities issued by residents that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees); and

### XXX

Page 7 of 12

## Page 8

### PART SIX. GENERAL PROVISIONS Chapter I ### REPORTS AND PENALTIES Section 101. Reportorial Requirements. The following reports

are required to be submitted to the BSP by AABs, OBUs, and AAB forex ### corps where applicable:

Submission Title of Report Frequency/ Deadline

Submission Procedure

CategoryI A. Consolidated Report on Foreign Exchange Assets and Liabilities

### XXX XXX XXX XXX

G. Registering/FX selling/Remitting Banks

### XXX XXX XXX XXX

A-2 Report on Foreign Investments For the Newly- Email to lOD at Registered with the BSP through I issued BSP iod_imag_fi_aab@ AABs (Annex R), including the Reference bsp.gov.ph in .pdf Report on Funding for Foreign Number and and .xls/.xlsx format Investments Registered with the Inward BSP through AABs (Annex S) Investment

sheets of

Annex R, and Annex S: Within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C

For the Repatriation ### sheet of Annex R: Within two (2) banking days from actual remittance date

### XXX XXX XXX XXX

A-2 Report on Outstanding Balances Quarterly, within I Email to lOD at

of Foreign Investments 15 banking days iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph Registered with the BSP through I after end of in .pdf and .xls/.xIsx AABs (Annex AB) reference quarter I format

A-2 Report on Foreign Direct Monthly, within Email to lOD at Investments Registered with the five (5) banking iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph BSP through AABs (Annex AD) days after end of I in.pdf and .xls/.xlsx

reference month I format

### XXX XXX XXX XXX

Page 8 of 12

## Page 9

### XXX

Section 104. (Reserved)

### XXX Glossary of Terms

FOR PURPOSES OF THIS MANUAL, the following definitions are ### adopted:

### XXX

Bangko Sentral Registration Document (BSRDf is a document evidencing registration of foreign investments and loans. The registration allows the transacting party to access the FX resources of, or purchase FX from, AABs/AAB forex corps against Philippine Pesos for servicing/settlement of these transactions.

### XXX

Debt securities referred to in Section 33.3.b of the FX Manual are negotiable instruments (e.g., notes, bonds and convertible notes) that serve as evidence of a debt. Non-participating preferred shares that pay a fixed income but do not provide for participation in the distribution of the residual value of an incorporated enterprise on dissolution, are also classified as debt securities. The term, however, excludes those debt ffalling under’ the _- provisions’ of Part Three, Chapter I (Lloans/Borrowings and Guarantees) of the FX Manual.

XX Xx"

SECTION 2. The following Appendices/Annexes to the ### FX Manual have been revised/deleted:

Revised

1. Appendix 1: Minimum Documentary Requirements for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Resident to Resident FX Transactions and Resident to Non-Resident Non-Trade Current Account Transactions

2. Appendix 1.1: Minimum Documentary Requirements for Peso Deposit Accounts of Non-Residents

2 Except those covered by Section 37 for which a BSRD shall no longer be issued

Page 9 of 12

## Page 10

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Appendix 1.4: Minimum Documentary Requirements for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Inward and Outward Investments

Appendix 1.5: Minimum Documentary Requirements for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Import Transactions

Appendix 10.A: Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 36 of the FX Manual

Appendix 10.B: Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 37 of the FX Manual

Appendix 10.C: Supporting Documents for Registration of Inward Investments

Appendix 10.3A: Letter Advice for Single Investor Appendix 10.3B: Letter Advice for Multiple Investors Appendix 10.4: Authority to Disclose Information

Appendix 11.1B: Guidelines on Filling Out Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) through Authorized Agent Banks (AABs) [Annex R]

Appendix 18: Guidelines and Minimum Documentary Requirements for Foreign Exchange (FX) Forward and Swap Transactions

Annex N: Computation Sheet for Outward Remittance for Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP

Annex R: Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) through Authorized Agent Banks (AABs)

Annex S: Report on Funding for Foreign Investments Registered with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) through Authorized Agent Banks (AABs)

Annex AB: Report on Outstanding Balances of Foreign Investments Registered with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) through Authorized Agent Banks (AABs)

Annex AD: Report on Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs)

Registered with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) through Authorized Agent Banks (AABs)

Page 10 of 12

## Page 11

Deleted 1. Appendix 10.2: BSRD Letter Advice

2. Annex AC: Report on Interim Peso Deposits (IPDs) of Registered Foreign Investments

SECTION 3. Transitory Provision. The registering authorized agent banks (AABs) shall submit to the BSP-International Operations Department (IOD) the list of existing and valid BSRDs issued by registering AABs under the following applicable report forms and ### submission timeline:

Particulars Report Form Timeline (old report form, as

of May 2023 version of the FX Manual)

BSRDs issued by the I Annex AB Within 15 banking registering AAB as of days from the date of 31 January 2024 issuance of _ this Circular

Regular Submission

BSRDs issued by the I Report on I Within two (2) registering AAB from I Investments banking days from Ol February 2024 I Registered with I registration date or

until the day prior to I AABs (under the I priorto the effectivity the effectivity of this I Initial I Registration I date of the Circular Circular sheet) (whichever is earlier)

The BSP-IOD shall issue proof of receipt of the aforementioned reports starting from the date of issuance of this Circular to ensure continuous access to FX resources of AABs/AAB forex corps for registered investments covered by BSRDs upon effectivity of the Circular.

Upon the effectivity of this Circular until 30 September 2024, registering AABs shall continue to: (a) report the transactions of registered investments under Section 37 of the FX Manual using the old report forms (as of May 2023 version of the FX Manual); and (b) make the necessary preparations and adjustments to their systems and processes to ensure compliance with the new reporting guidelines.

The submission of the revised report forms shall commence on O01 October 2024.

SECTION 4 Repealing Clause. This Circular supersedes/ amends/modifies the provisions of existing regulations that are inconsistent herewith.

Page Tl of 12

## Page 12

SECTION 5. Effectivity. This Circular shall take effect 15 banking days after its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation in the Philippines.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD: EZ han. C Digitally signed by Eli M. Remolona Jr.

Date: 2024.04.11 13:21:40 +08'00'

### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Governor

Page 12 of 12

## Page 13

### APPENDIX 1

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements’ for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Resident to Resident FX Transactions and Resident to Non-Resident Non-Trade Current Account Transactions

For Resident to Resident FX Transactions under Part One, Chapter II of the FX Manual, requiring settlement in foreign currency

Purpose

Documents Required?

### XXX

### XXX

6. Payables of e-commerce market participants related to resident to

resident FX transactions

### XXX

For Resident to Non-Resident Non-Trade Current Account’ Transactions under Section 2.1 of the FX Manual

Purpose Documents Required* ### XXX XXX 26. FX non-trade current account a. Certified true copy of the contract/agreement or transactions between residents equivalent document/s between the and non-residents involving counterparty and e-commerce market e-commerce market participant/s (e.g., service agreement between participants service provider/merchant and payment platforms, netting agreement/s); and b. Xxx ### C. XXX ### XXX XXX

a) Xxx b) xxx Cc) Xxx a) Xxx b) xxx ### XXX

a) Xxx b) xxx Cc) Xxx ### XXX

## Page 14

### APPENDIX 1.1

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements for Peso Deposit Accounts of Non-Residents'

Source of Funds

Documents

Peso proceeds from conversion of inward remittance of convertible FX

Certificate of inward remittance (CIR) of FX and conversion to pesos using the prescribed form under Appendix 10.1 or equivalent document/s issued by the FX receiving and/or converting bank

### XXX

### XXX 7. Peso funds of: (i) foreign students I a. xxx enrolled for at least one (1) school term I b. (i) If funded by inward remittance of in the Philippines; and (ii) non-resident FX: CIR of FX and conversion to pesos Filipinos using the prescribed form under Appendix 10.1 or equivalent document/s issued by the FX receiving and/or converting bank; or (ii) xxx (iii) xxx ### XXX XXX

### XXX

## Page 15

### APPENDIX 1.4

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements’ for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Inward and Outward Investments

For Inward Investments by Non-Residents

Purpose Documents Required ### A. Capital Repatriation for Investments: 1. In instruments registered with BSP under Section 36 ### XXX XXX iv. Equity securities issued onshore by I a. Xxx residents that are not listed at an I b. xxx onshore exchange Cc. XXX v. Debt securities issued onshore by I a. BSRD?; and private sector residents that are not I b. xxx listed at an onshore exchange and not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual vi. Investment funds created onshore I a. BSRD?; and by residents b. Xxx ### XXX XXX ix. Instruments issued by residents and I a. xxx non-residents which are not covered I b. xxx by Sections 33, 34 and the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees), and not contrary to applicable laws, rules and regulations ### XXX XXX 2. In instruments registered with the BSP through AABs under Section 37 i. Debt securities issued onshore by I a. In case the FX selling AAB is also the the National Government and other registering AAB: Proof of receipt of the public sector entities report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP*; or In case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB: Letter Advice from the registering AAB; and b. xxx ii. Equity securities issued onshore by I a. In case the FX selling AAB is also the residents that are listed at an registering AAB: Proof of receipt of the onshore exchange report submitted by the registering AAB iii. Debt securities issued onshore by to the BSP*; or private sector residents that are listed at an onshore exchange and In case the FX selling AAB is not the not covered by the provisions of Part registering AAB: Letter Advice from the Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual registering AAB; and iv. Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) I b. Xxx issued/created onshore by residents v. PDRs that are listed at an onshore exchange vi. Peso time deposits with an AAB I a. In case the FX selling AAB is also the with a maturity of at least 90 days registering AAB: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP*; or In case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB: Letter Advice from the registering AAB; and 1 Xxx 2 Xxx

Issued by the BSP-International Operations Department (IOD) starting from the date of issuance of Circular No.

## Page 16

### APPENDIX 1.4

Page xxx of xxx

Purpose Documents Required b. xxx vii. Equity securities issued onshore or I a. In case the FX selling AAB is also the offshore by non-residents that are registering AAB: Proof of receipt of the listed at an onshore exchange report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP*; or In case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB: Letter Advice from the registering AAB; and b. xxx viii. Debt securities issued onshore by I a. In case the FX selling AAB is also the non-residents that are listed at an registering AAB: Proof of receipt of the onshore exchange report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP*; or In case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB: Letter Advice from the registering AAB; and b. xxx ix. Instruments under Section 37.1 I a. In case the FX selling AAB is also the (a-h) used as collateral involving registering AAB: Proof of receipt of the transfer of legal/beneficial report submitted by the registering AAB ownership of the collateral to the to the BSP; or non-resident investor In case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB: Letter Advice from the registering AAB; and b. xxx 3. XXX a. XXX b. Xxx Cc. XXX B. Remittance of related earnings on I a. For investments registered with BSP

BSP-registered investments of under Section 36: BSRD?; or non-residents For investments registered with the BSP through AABs under Section 37: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP? (in case the FX selling AAB is also the registering AAB) or Letter Advice from the registering AAB (in case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB); and b. Xxx. For investments registered with BSP under Section 36 - Computation of the peso amount to be converted to FX using the prescribed format (Annex N). ### X XX For Other Transactions Purpose Documents Required ### XXX XXX C. Settlement of FX obligations/ I xxx payables of residents to non-resident investors relative to FX-denominated equity and debt securities issued by residents that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees) ### XXX XXX

## Page 17

### APPENDIX 1.5

Page xxx of xxx

Minimum Documentary Requirements’ for the Sale of Foreign Exchange (FX) Relating to Import Transactions

Mode of Payment Documents Required? 1. Letter of Credit (LC), Documents against Payment (DP) or Documents against Acceptance (DA) ### XXX XXX b. In case the FX selling AAB/AAB I a. xxx forex corp is not the issuing/ I b. xxx

booking/availment ### AAB

reporting

Certification from the issuing/booking/reporting AAB signed by the AAB’s authorized signatory (addressed to individual FX selling AABs or AAB forex corps) or equivalent document/s indicating the: (i) amount of the outstanding FX trade obligations; (ii) amount of FX intended to be purchased; and (iii) Bank Reference Number (BRN) for DA importation.

### XXX

### XXX

4. Open Account (OA)

### XXX

### XXX

b. In case the FX remitting AAB reporting AAB

selling/ is not the

72

### XXX

### XXX

Certification from the _ reporting AAB signed by the AAB’s authorized signatory (addressed to individual FX selling AABs or AAB forex corps) or equivalent document/s indicating the: (i) amount of the outstanding FX trade obligations; (ii) amount of FX intended to be purchased; and (iii) BRN for OA importation.

5. Digital payments through e-commerce market participants

a.

Certified true copy of the contract/agreement? or equivalent document/s between the counterparty and e-commerce market participant/s (e.g., service agreement between merchants and payment platforms, netting agreement/s); and

b. xxx

a) b) a) b) c) d) ### XXX

### XXX ### XXX ### XXX ### XXX ### XXX ### XXX

## Page 18

### APPENDIX 10.A

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 36 of the FX Manual

### XXX lll. Reporting ### 1. XXX

2. In case the FX selling AAB is different from the remitting AAB, the FX selling AAB shall submit to BSP-IOD its Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP (Annex X) within five (5) banking days from date of FX sale, with supporting documents listed under Appendix 1.4 of the FX Manual and the original BSRD' for inward investments that have been fully divested by the non-resident investor. The non-resident investor or his resident agent/authorized representative shall disclose to the remitting bank the intended purpose of the FX remittance and other pertinent information necessary to allow reporting by the remitting bank of the transaction under its Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP (Annex X). The remitting bank shall submit such report within five (5) banking days from date of FX remittance.

### XXX

### ] XXX

## Page 19

### APPENDIX 10.B

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines Covering Inward Investments under Section 37 of the FX Manual

The following guidelines shall apply to registration, repatriation/ remittance, and reporting of inward investments under Section 37 of the ### FX Manual:

I. Registration with the BSP through registering AABs'

1. Investments under Section 37 made by the non-resident investor shall be registered upon: (i) submission by the non-resident investor, or his duly authorized representative to the registering AAB of the applicable supporting documents (i.e., proof of funding and investment made) under Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual and a duly accomplished “Authority to Disclose Information” form under Appendix 10.4; and (ii) reporting thereof by the registering AAB to the BSP using the Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs (Annex R) and confirmation of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP.

2. To facilitate the reporting of each investment of the non-resident to the BSP by the registering AAB, a single BSP Reference Number’ shall be issued by a registering AAB to a non-resident investor for all his investments in instruments under Section 37.1 of the FX Manual, except for item g thereof. A separate BSP Reference Number shall be issued to a non-resident investor ### exclusively for all investments in the following:

a. Securities issued by non-residents and are listed at an onshore exchange? (with the suffix “NR” in the BSP Reference Number); and

b. Instruments under Section 37 of the FX Manual funded by peso proceeds of non-residents’ securities listed at an onshore exchange? (with the suffix “P” in the BSP Reference Number).

3. For initial registration’, the registering AABs shall submit to BSP-IOD at iod_imag_fi_aab@bsp.gov.ph, the BSP Reference Number issued in the name of the non-resident investor using the Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs (Annex R), together with the Authority to Disclose Information (Appendix 10.4), within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C.

The supporting documents (e.g., those listed under Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual) shall remain in the custody of the registering AABs but shall be made available upon request by the BSP for verification purposes.

4. All changes in the investments’ (e.g., additional investments, reduction in investments, stock/property dividend distribution, transfers) shall be reflected in the records of the investor maintained by the registering AABs.

1 Xxx

2 Formerly the BSRD Number. The BSP Reference Number follows the same field format as the BSRD Number, i.e, AXXXXXX-BBBB where “AXXXXXX” is the pre-assigned alphanumeric BSP Reference Number for the non-resident investor's account with the registering AAB, and “BBBB’” is the numeric code assigned by the BSP to the registering AABs of the account.

3 Xxx

4 Xxx

## Page 20

### APPENDIX 10.B

Page xxx of xxx

### XXX

Transactions? pertaining to investments funded by inward remittance of FX and repatriation shall be reported to the BSP-IOD by the registering AAB within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C or actual remittance date (as applicable) under the Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs (Annex R).

5. Xxx

6. For instruments used as collateral acquired from non-residents and residents involving transfer of legal/beneficial ownership of the collateral to ### the non-resident investor/transferee/lender, the registering AAB_ shall: (a) annotate the ledger of the original non-resident investor/transferor/ borrower to reflect such transfer; and/or (b) issue a new BSP Reference Number (in case the new non-resident investor/transferee/lender has no existing BSP Reference Number) or annotate the ledger (in case new non-resident investor/transferee/ lender has an existing BSP Reference Number), to allow servicing using FX resources of AABs/AAB forex corps by the new non-resident investor/transferee of earnings accruing on the transaction/arrangement involved.

### XXX

Upon the termination of the contract (as applicable) where the new non-resident investor/transferee/lender shall return the same or equivalent securities to the original investor/transferor/borrower, the registering AAB shall annotate the ledger of the new non-resident investor/transferee/lender to cancel the registration of the same or equivalent securities to be returned to the original investor/transferor/borrower. The registering AAB shall annotate the ledger of the original non-resident investor/borrower for the securities returned.

Il. Repatriation of capital/remittance of related earnings

1. AABs/AAB forex corps may sell FX to the non-resident investor or his authorized representative (whether resident or non-resident) without prior BSP approval the equivalent of peso sales/divestment proceeds and related earnings from BSP-registered inward investments for remittance to the non-resident investor/intended beneficiary (whether onshore or offshore) evidenced by the supporting documents listed under Appendix 1.4 of the FX Manual.

2. In cases when the FX sale/repatriation/remittance will be done by an AAB that is not the registering AAB, the latter shall issue® a Letter Advice’ (LA) [using the prescribed form under Appendices 10.3A or 10.3B, as applicable] authorizing the FX selling/remitting AAB to use (in full or partially) the outstanding investments covered by the BSP Reference Number/s. The remitting AAB shall only effect the remittance evidenced by the supporting documents listed under Appendix 1.4 of the FX Manual.

Refer to items 11.A and 11.B of Appendix 11.1B for the list of transactions to be reported ### XXX 7 Registering AABs may issue the LA in electronic form

## Page 21

### APPENDIX 10.B

Page xxx of xxx

3. An LA may also be issued by a registering AAB in favor of another registering AAB for: (a) transactions involving peso sales proceeds of a registered investment which will: (i) fund a new investment to be registered by the latter; and (ii) be deposited in the non-resident investor's account with the latter bank; (b) transfer of registered foreign investments; and (c) transfer of funds in interim peso deposit accounts (IPDs).

4. Each LA shall have a validity of one (1) month from its issuance/reissuance date. An unutilized and expired LA shall be applied for reissuance with the originating registering AAB until fully utilized/cancelled.

An expired LA can no longer be used for: (a) FX sale by AABs/AAB forex corps to service capital repatriation/remittance of earnings; or (b) transfer of peso sales proceeds of a registered investment to an AAB other than the originating registering AAB for: (i) registration of a new investment; or (ii) deposit to the IPD account of a non-resident; or (c) transfer of registered foreign investments; or (d) transfer of funds between IPDs of a non-resident investor in different registering AABs.

Lost and unutilized LA shall be applied for replacement with the originating registering AAB supported by an Affidavit of Loss. The affidavit of loss should’ attest to the _ following: (i) loss of the LA; (ii) the reason/circumstances surrounding the loss; (iii) affirmation that diligent search for the document/s declared lost has been done; (iv) the investment remains intact and exists to date; and (v) the BSP Reference Number/s and date/s, as applicable.

Ill. Reporting

1. All transactions on registered investments shall be reported by the registering/remitting AABs to BSP-IOD at iod_imag_fi_aab@bsp.gov.ph® within two (2) banking days from: (i) actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C (for the Newly-issued BSP Reference Number and Inward Investment sheets); or (ii) actual remittance date (for the Repatriation sheet) under the Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs? (Annex R), together with the Report on Funding for Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs [Annex S] (as applicable).

The AABs shall make available the documents (e.g., those listed in Appendix 1.4) upon request by the BSP for verification purposes.

2. Registering AABs_ shall likewise submit to the BSP-IOD at ### iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph the following, using the prescribed forms:

a. Report on Foreign Direct Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs (Annex AD) on a monthly basis within five (5) banking days from end of reference month; and

8 The subject line of the email shall indicate the following: Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs <bank name> <report date>. This format shall likewise be the filename convention for the attached report

2 In accomplishing the report, AABs shall be guided by Appendix 11.1B.

## Page 22

### APPENDIX 10.B

Page xxx of xxx

b. Report on Outstanding Balances of Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP through AABs (Annex AB) on a quarterly basis within 15 banking days from end of reference quarter.

## Page 23

### APPENDIX 10.C

Page xxx of xxx

Supporting Documents' for Registration of Inward Investments

Registration of inward

investments (either with the BSP or

registering AABs) shall be supported by proof of funding and the actual ### investment made by the non-resident investor as indicated below:

I. Proof of funding

Form of Funding

Proof of Funding

transfer of onshore investments

A.__Incash ### XXX XXX 3. FX payments made_ offshore I Proof of funding of initial onshore investment between non-residents for I and subsequent FX payment made offshore for

transfer of said investment to another

non-resident - ### a. If transferred investment was registered:

i. For inward investments covered by Section 36 of the FX Manual: BSRD?; or

iii For inward investments covered by Section 37 of the FX Manual: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP? (in case the FX selling AAB is also the registering AAB) or Letter Advice from the registering AAB (in case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB); or

If transferred investment was _ not registered: Document showing funding for transferred investment; and

b. Deed of Transfer/Deed of Assignment/ Sale/covering agreement, or equivalent document; xxx; and

c. Certificate Authorizing Registration issued by the Bureau of Internal Revenue evidencing the transfer of the investment between non-residents relative to investments in instruments under Section 36 of the FX Manual (as applicable).

### XXX

### XXX

5. Reinvestment of peso divestment/ sales proceeds or related earnings of investment

Proof of funding for the previous investment and proof of divestment/sale or earnings (as applicable) -

a. For divestment/sales proceeds

### a. If previous investment was registered:

i. For inward investments covered by Section 36 of the FX Manual: BSRD?; or

ii. For inward investments covered by Section 37 of the FX Manual: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP? (in case the FX selling AAB is also the registering AAB) or Letter Advice from the registering AAB (in case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB); or

1 Xxx 2 Xxx

3 Issued by the BSP-International Operations Department (IOD) starting from the date of issuance of

Circular No.

## Page 24

### APPENDIX 10.C

Page xxx of xxx

Form of Funding

Proof of Funding

### If previous investment was not registered: Document showing funding of previous investment; and

b. xxx

b. For earnings

### a. If previous investment was registered:

i. For inward investments covered by Section 36 of the FX Manual: BSRD*; or

iii For inward investments covered by Section 37 of the FX Manual: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP? (in case the FX selling AAB is also the registering AAB) or Letter Advice from the registering AAB (in case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB); or

### If previous investment was not registered: Document showing funding of previous investment; and

b. xxx ### XXX XXX 7. Exercise of conversion rights to I a. If initial investment (eg. PDR) was ### underlying shares [eg., under registered: Philippine Depository Receipts (PDRs)] i. For inward investments covered by Section 36 of the FX Manual: BSRD?; or iii For inward investments covered by Section 37 of the FX Manual: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP*; or ### If initial investment was not registered: Document showing funding of the initial investment; and b. xxx B. Inkind ### XXX XXX 3. Stock and/or property dividends I Proof of funding for existing investment and accruing from onshore investments I proof of declaration - ### a. If base/mother shares were registered: i. For inward investments covered by Section 36 of the FX Manual: BSRD*; or iii For inward investments covered by Section 37 of the FX Manual: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP? (in case the FX selling AAB is also the registering AAB) or Letter Advice from the registering AAB (in case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB); or If base/mother/original shares was not registered: Document showing funding of existing investment; and b. xxx ### 4. Shares (e.g., share swap) Onshore shares:

### a. If investment was previously registered:

i. For inward investments covered by Section 36 of the FX Manual: BSRD?; or

### XXX

## Page 25

### APPENDIX 10.C

Page xxx of xxx

Form of Funding

Proof of Funding

iii For inward investments covered by Section 37 of the FX Manual: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP? (in case the FX selling AAB is also the registering AAB) or Letter Advice from the registering AAB (in case the FX selling AAB is not the registering AAB); or

### If investment was not previously registered: Document showing proof of investment in shares to be invested; and

b. xxx ### Offshore shares: ### XXX C. Others not falling under ltemsAandB I a. For inward investments covered by (e.g., stock splits/reverse stocksplits, Section 36 of the FX Manual: BSRD? uplifted shares, investments made (if applicable); or prior to 15 March 1973) For inward investments covered by Section 37 of the FX Manual: Proof of receipt of the report submitted by the registering AAB to the BSP? (as applicable); and b. xxx Cc. XXX d. Xxx e. Document effecting the change in registered investment; or f. = Xxx g. XXX ll. Proof of investment Type of Investment Proof of Investment by Non-resident Investor A. Instruments for registration with the BSP under Section 36

1. Assigned capital/operational working fund/contributed capital (Section 33.1.a)

a.

For Philippine branches/representative office/regional operating headquarters (HQ) or regional area HQ: (i) Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) License To Do Business (as applicable); (ii) latest General Information Sheet (GIS) duly received by SEC (as applicable); (iii) applicable SEC form/s required under Republic Act No. 7042 ~~ [Foreign Investments Act of 1991 (FIA)], as amended, duly received by the SEC; and (iv) other regulatory/board clearances/approvals (as applicable);

### For investee firms that are partnerships: (i) Certificate of Registration with the Philippine SEC - Articles of Partnership and amendments thereto (as_ applicable); (ii) latest General Information Sheet (GIS) duly received by SEC (as applicable); (iii) applicable SEC form/s required under the FIA duly received by the SEC; and (iv) other regulatory/board clearances/ approvals (as applicable);

### XXX

## Page 26

### APPENDIX 10.C

Page xxx of xxx

Type of Investment

Proof of Investment by Non-resident Investor

b. xxx Cc. XXX ### XXX XXX ### 4. Equity securities issued onshore I a. For investee firms that are corporations: by residents that are not (i) Certificate of Registration with the listed at an onshore exchange Philippine Securities and Exchange [Section 33.3.a.(i)] Commission (SEC) - Articles of Incorporation and amendments thereto (as applicable); (ii) latest General Information Sheet (GIS) duly received by SEC (as applicable); (iii) applicable SEC form/s required under the FIA duly received by the SEC; and (iv) other regulatory/board clearances/approvals (as applicable); For investments prior to 15 March 1973 ### without Stock Transfer Agent’s Certificate: Document evidencing existence and purchase/acquisition of onshore legitimate investments by non-residents, or equivalent document b. xxx Cc. XXX ### XXX XXX 9. Instruments issued by residents I xxx and non-residents which are not covered by Sections 33, 34 and the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual (Loans/Borrowings and Guarantees), and not contrary to applicable laws, rules and regulations (Section 35) ### XXX XXX B. Instruments for registration with the BSP through AABs under Section 37 ### XXX XXX 9. Instruments under Section 37.1 (a-h) I xxx used as_ collateral involving transfer of legal/beneficial

ownership of the collateral to the non-resident investor

## Page 27

### APPENDIX 10.2 Reserved

## Page 28

### APPENDIX 10.35A

Page xxx of xxx

[Template for single investor]

<Issuing Bank’s Letterhead>

Letter Advice (LA) Date: <date of issuance (DD-MMM-YYYY }> ### Issuing Bank’s Ref. No.: <Name of the receiver of the LA>

<Address>

Purpose: (please check appropriate box/es)

QO Repatriation of capital/divestment proceeds

O) Remittance of dividends/earnings

QO Reinvestment of capital/divestment proceeds or earnings QO) Transfer of registered foreign investments

QO) Others: (please specify)

### Gentlemen:

Please be advised that as instructed by our non-resident client, <Name of client>,on and to support the purpose/s stated above, your bank is hereby authorized to utilize the indicated number of shares/PHP ### amount under the following BSP Reference No/s.:

### Q) Capital: No. of Base/ BSP Reference No. Investment ID Mother Shares/Face Amount/Amount ### QO) Dividends/Earnings: No. of Base/ Mother Dividend Net Amount BSP Reference No. Investment ID Shares/Face Rate in PHP Amount/Amount

This LA is valid for one (1) month from date of issuance and may be renewed with the originating registering AAB.

Signature of Authorized Bank Officer over Printed Name

Position ### Company Tel. No.: ### Company Email Address:

## Page 29

### APPENDIX 10.3A

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines/Instructions for Filling Out the Letter Advice (LA) ### I. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

1. An LA! shall be issued by a registering authorized agent bank (AAB) if there is an intended outward remittance/repatriation that shall be effected through an AAB other than the registering AAB. This LA authorizes the FX selling/remitting bank to use (in full or partially) the shares/amount indicated therein.

2. An LA may also be issued by a registering AAB in favor of another registering AAB for: (a) transactions involving peso sales proceeds of a registered investment which will: (i) fund a new investment to be registered by the latter; and (ii) be deposited in the non-resident investor's account with the latter bank; (b) transfer of registered foreign investments; and (c) transfer of funds in interim peso deposit accounts (IPDs).

3. Each LAshall have a validity of one (1) month from its issuance/reissuance date. An unutilized and expired LA shall be applied for reissuance with the originating registering AAB until fully utilized/cancelled.

An expired LA can no longer be used for: (a) FX sale by AABs/AAB forex corps to service capital repatriation/remittance of earnings; or (b) transfer of peso sales proceeds of a registered investment to an AAB other than the originating registering AAB for: (i) registration of a new investment; or (ii) deposit to the IPD account of a non-resident; or (c) transfer of registered foreign investments; or (d) transfer of funds between IPDs of a non-resident investor in different registering AABs.

Lost and unutilized LA shall be applied for replacement with the originating registering AAB supported by an Affidavit of Loss. The affidavit of loss should attest to the following: (i) loss of the LA; (ii) the reason/circumstances surrounding the loss; (iii) affirmation that diligent search for the document/s declared lost has been done; (iv) the investment remains intact and exists to date; and (v) the BSP Reference Number/s and date/s, as applicable.

ll. SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS 1. BSP REFERENCE NO. - refers to the pre-assigned number of the registered foreign investments and under which all subsequent

transactions shall be recorded.

### Field format shall be as follows:

Investments Field format 1. Foreign investments under Section 37.1.a-i, AXXXXXX-BBBB except for item g, of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual) 2. Non-resident investments in PSE-listed equity AXXXXXX-BBBBNR securities issued by non-residents

1 Registering AABs may issue the LA in electronic form

## Page 30

### APPENDIX 10.3A

Page xxx of xxx

Investments Field format 3. Investment by non-resident issuer of Peso AXXXXXX-BBBBP proceeds from PSE-listed equity securities

Where, “AXXXXXX” is the pre-assigned alphanumeric BSP Reference Number for the foreign investor's account with the registering AABs, and “BBBB’ is the numeric code assigned by the BSP to the registering AABs of the account (e.g., Citibank’s BSP Reference Number AOO7001 will be displayed as AOO7001-0080).

INVESTMENT ID - refers to the alpha code/stock symbol of the security assigned by the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) which will be the only acceptable standard. For government securities (GS), indicate the applicable codes like TBIL, FXTN, RTB. For 90-day peso time deposits, indicate TD. For IPDs, indicate IPD and the following applicable fund ### source codes (e.g., IPD-PSE, IPD-Peso GS):

Code Particulars PSE PSE-listed equity securities issued by residents excluding ETFs and PDRs [Section 33.3.a.(ii) of the FX Manual] Peso GS Peso-denominated debt securities issued onshore by the National Government and other public sector entities (Section 33.2 of the FX Manual)

Peso TD Peso time deposits with an AAB with a maturity of at least 90 days (Section 33.4 of the FX Manual)

ETF Exchange Traded Funds issued/created onshore by _ residents (Section 33.3.c of the FX Manual)

PDRs Philippine Depositary Receipts whether not listed or listed at an onshore exchange [Section 33.3.e.(i) and (ii) of the FX Manual]

PSE-NR Equity securities issued onshore or offshore by non-residents that are listed at an onshore exchange (Section 34.1 of the FX Manual)

PDI Peso-denominated debt instruments issued onshore by private sector

residents listed at an onshore exchange that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual [Section 33.3.b.(ii) of the FX Manual]

PDI not Peso-denominated debt instruments issued onshore by private sector listed residents not listed at an onshore exchange that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual [Section 33.3.b.(i) of the FX Manual]

PDI-NR Peso-denominated debt instruments issued onshore by non-residents that are listed at an onshore exchange (Section 34.2.6 of the FX Manual)

UITF Peso-denominated Unit Investment Trust Fund issued onshore by residents (Section 33.3.d of the FX Manual)

MF Peso-denominated Mutual Fund issued onshore by _ residents

(Section 33.3.d of the FX Manual)

NO. OF BASE/MOTHER SHARE/FACE AMOUNT/AMOUNT - refers to the

### following:

e For PSE-listed securities -number of shares that have been sold by the investor/s or transferred;

e For GS - face value of the securities that have been sold/matured;

e For TD - maturity value of the time deposit; and

e For IPD - amount utilized to purchase additional investment/s, transferred to another registering AAB or to fund an intended outward remittance/repatriation.

DIVIDEND RATE - refers to the rate announced by the investee firm which declared the dividends.

## Page 31

### APPENDIX 10.3A

Page xxx of xxx

NET AMOUNT IN PHP - refers to dividend/earnings (net of tax) accruing to registered investments to fund additional investments or lodge to an IPD account of the investor with another registering AAB or for repatriation by a remitting AAB other than the registering AAB.

## Page 32

### APPENDIX 10.5B

Page xxx of xxx

[Template for multiple investors]

<Issuing Bank’s Letterhead> Letter Advice (LA)

Date: <date of issuance (DD-MMM-YYYY)>

### Issuing Bank’s Ref. No.:

<Name of the receiver of the LA> <Address> ### Gentlemen:

Please be advised that as instructed by our non-resident clients and to support the purpose/s stated below, your bank is hereby authorized to utilize the indicated number of shares/PHP amount under the following BSP ### Reference No/s:

### Client information:

Name of Client BSP Reference No.

### Transaction details:

BSP Ref. No.

Investment No. of Base/Mother Purpose Source Shares/Face

1 ID Amount/Amount Rate

(May use additional sheet/page, as necessary)

This LA is valid for one (1) month from date of issuance and may be renewed with the originating registering AAB.

Signature of Authorized Bank Officer over Printed Name

Position

### Company Tel. No.: ### Company Email Address:

1 Applicable only to transactions with “Dividend/Earnings” as source

Dividend Net Amount

## Page 33

1.

### APPENDIX 10.5B

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines/Instructions for Filling Out the Letter Advice (LA) ### GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

An LA? shall be issued by a registering authorized agent bank (AAB) if there is an intended outward remittance/repatriation that shall be effected through an AAB other than the registering AAB. This LA authorizes the FX selling/remitting bank to use (in full or partially) the shares/amount indicated therein.

An LA may also be issued by a registering AAB in favor of another registering AAB for: (a) transactions involving peso sales proceeds of a registered investment which will: (i) fund a new investment to be registered by the latter; and (ii) be deposited in the non-resident investor's account with the latter bank; (b) transfer of registered foreign investments; and (c) transfer of funds in interim peso deposit accounts (IPDs).

Each LA shall have a validity of one (1) month from its issuance/reissuance date. An unutilized and expired LA shall be applied for reissuance with the originating registering AAB until fully utilized/cancelled.

An expired LA can no longer be used for: (a) FX sale by AABs/AAB forex corps to service capital repatriation/remittance of earnings; or (b) transfer of peso sales proceeds of a registered investment to an AAB other than the originating registering AAB for: (i) registration of a new investment; or (ii) deposit to the IPD account of a non-resident; or (c) transfer of registered foreign investments; or (d) transfer of funds between IPDs of a non-resident investor in different registering AABs.

Lost and unutilized LA shall be applied for replacement with the originating registering AAB supported by an Affidavit of Loss. The affidavit of loss should attest to the following: (i) loss of the LA; (ii) the reason/circumstances surrounding the loss; (iii) affirmation that diligent search for the document/s declared lost has been done; (iv) the investment remains intact and exists to date; and (v) the BSP Reference Number/s and date/s, as applicable.

### SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS BSP REFERENCE NO. - refers to the pre-assigned number of the registered foreign investments and under which all subsequent

transactions shall be recorded.

### Field format shall be as follows:

Investments Field format 1. Foreign investments under Section 37.1.a-i, AXXXXXX-BBBB except for item g, of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual) 2. Non-resident investments in PSE-listed equity AXXXXXX-BBBBNR securities issued by non-residents 3. Investment by non-resident issuer of Peso AXXXXXX-BBBBP proceeds from PSE-listed equity securities

2

Registering AABs may issue the LA in electronic form

## Page 34

### APPENDIX 10.5B

Page xxx of xxx

Where, “AXXXXXX” is the pre-assigned alphanumeric BSP Reference Number for the foreign investor's account with the registering AABs, and “BBBB' is the numeric code assigned by the BSP to the registering AABs of the account (e.g., Citibank’s BSP Reference Number AOO7001 will be displayed as AOO7001-0080).

### 2. PURPOSE - refers to the following applicable purposes of the LA: e Repatriation of capital/divestment proceeds;

Remittance of dividends/earnings;

Reinvestment of capital/divestment proceeds or earnings;

Transfer of registered foreign investments; and

Others (specify the purpose).

### 3. SOURCE - refers to the following applicable source of repatriation: e Capital; and e Dividends/earnings.

4. INVESTMENT ID - refers to the alpha code/stock symbol of the security assigned by the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) which will be the only acceptable standard. For government securities (GS), indicate the applicable codes like TBIL, FXTN, RTB. For 90-day peso time deposits, indicate TD. For IPDs, indicate IPD and the following applicable fund ### source codes (e.g., IPD-PSE, IPD-Peso GS):

Code Particulars PSE PSE-listed equity securities issued by residents excluding ETFs and PDRs [Section 33.3.a.(ii) of the FX Manual] Peso GS Peso-denominated debt securities issued onshore by the National Government and other public sector entities (Section 33.2 of the FX Manual)

Peso TD Peso time deposits with an AAB with a maturity of at least 90 days (Section 33.4 of the FX Manual)

ETF Exchange Traded Funds issued/created onshore by _ residents (Section 33.3.c of the FX Manual)

PDRs Philippine Depositary Receipts whether not listed or listed at an onshore exchange [Section 33.3.e.(i) and (ii) of the FX Manual]

PSE-NR Equity securities issued onshore or offshore by non-residents that are listed at an onshore exchange (Section 34.1 of the FX Manual)

PDI Peso-denominated debt instruments issued onshore by private sector

residents listed at an onshore exchange that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual [Section 33.3.b.(ii) of the FX Manual]

PDI not Peso-denominated debt instruments issued onshore by private sector listed residents not listed at an onshore exchange that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual [Section 33.3.b.(i) of the FX Manual]

PDI-NR Peso-denominated debt instruments issued onshore by non-residents that are listed at an onshore exchange (Section 34.2.6 of the FX Manual)

UITF Peso-denominated Unit Investment Trust Fund issued onshore by residents (Section 33.3.d of the FX Manual)

MF Peso-denominated Mutual Fund issued onshore by _ residents

(Section 33.3.d of the FX Manual)

5. NO.OF BASE/MOTHER SHARES/FACE AMOUNT/AMOUNT - refers to the ### following: e For PSE-listed securities - number of shares that have been sold by the investor/s or transferred; e For GS - face value of the securities that have been sold/matured; e For TD - maturity value of the time deposit; and

## Page 35

### APPENDIX 10.5B

Page xxx of xxx

e For IPD - amount utilized to purchase additional investment/s, transferred to another registering AAB or to fund an intended outward remittance/repatriation.

DIVIDEND RATE - refers to the rate announced by the investee firm which declared the dividends.

NET AMOUNT IN PHP - refers to dividend/earnings (net of tax) accruing to registered investments to fund additional investments or lodge to an IPD account of the investor with another registering AAB or for repatriation by a remitting AAB other than the registering AAB.

## Page 36

The undersigned [name of non-resident investor or his duly authorized ### resident (copy attached')] hereby authorizes:

1. [name of custodian bank] to disclose to [name of designated registering/FX selling authorized agent bank (AAB)]*; and

### disclose to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP):

any information that may be required by the BSP relative to any and all investments of [name of non-resident investor] that are held in custody/ registered by the AAB. In this regard, these investments shall cover those existing as of date of the authority, as well as any subsequent investments of said non-resident investor.

It is understood that data compiled by the BSP from such disclosure/ reports/documents may be used in aggregated form only, for statistical and/or policy purposes and shall not be released in disaggregated form.

I declare that: (i) I have read and fully understood the contents of this document; and (ii) this authority is given knowingly, willingly and voluntarily.

Date Signature over Printed Name

1 Xxx 2 Note: This applies only if the custodian bank is different from the registering/FX selling ### AAB.

## Page 37

### APPENDIX 11.1B

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines on Filling Out the Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) through Authorized Agent Banks (AABs) [Annex R]

### Deadline for Submission to BSP-IOD:

### IOD FORM - Newly-issued BSP Reference Number:

Within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual

### IOD FORM - Inward Investments:

Within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual

### IOD FORM - Repatriation:

Within two (2) banking days from actual remittance date

### Acronyms: BSRD - Bangko Sentral Registration Document BSP Ref. No. - Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Reference Number CIR - Certificate of Inward Remittance FCY - Foreign Currency FX - Foreign Exchange FXTN - FX Treasury Notes GS - Peso Government Securities IPD - Interim Peso Deposit IR - Inward Remittance LA - Letter Advice PSE - Philippine Stock Exchange TBIL - Treasury Bill TBOND - Treasury Bond TD - Peso Time Deposit

### Inquiries about the report may be addressed to:

Investment Management and Analytics Group International Operations Department

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Room 301, 5-Storey Bldg.

A. Mabini St. corner P. Ocampo St., Manila

Tel. Nos.: 708-7106; 708-7110

E-mail Address: iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 38

### APPENDIX 11.1B

Page xxx of xxx

### INSTRUCTIONS FOR INDIVIDUAL DATA FIELDS

The report shall follow the file structure attached hereto. ### Individual fields shall be filled out as follows:

1. BSP Reference No. The pre-assigned number covering registered foreign investments and under which all subsequent transactions shall be recorded.

### Field format shall be as follows:

Investments Field format 1. Foreign investments under Section 37.1.a-i, AXXXXXX-BBBB except for item g, of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual) 2. Non-resident investments in PSE-listed equity I AXXXXXX-BBBBNR securities issued by non-residents 3. Investment by non-resident issuer of Peso I AXXXXXX-BBBBP proceeds from PSE-listed equity securities

Where, “AXXXXXX” is the pre-assigned alphanumeric BSP Reference Number for the foreign investor's account with the registering AABs, and “BBBB’ is the numeric code assigned by the BSP to the registering AAB (e.g., Citibank’s BSP Reference Number AOO700O1 will be displayed as ### A007001-0080).

2. BSP Reference Number Issuance Date Date when the BSP Reference Number was assigned.

3. Name of Foreign Investor Non-resident entity to which BSP Reference Number was assigned to.

4. Country Code For registrations: The country code where the investor is operating. Please refer to reference libraries incorporated in the template.

5. Securities Account Number Corresponding account in custody of the registering AAB.

6. Common/Trade Name of the Foreign Investor Refers to an abbreviated title that is written out in full or widely known name used by the foreign investor in its day-to-day business.

7. Name of Ultimate Beneficiary of the Foreign Investor Name of underlying client of the foreign investor on record.

8. Transaction No. The numeric sequential order of a transaction.

9. Reckoning Date Date when transaction is ready for reporting to BSP-IOD.

10. Basis of Reckoning Date Either actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual

## Page 39

### APPENDIX 11.1B

Page xxx of xxx

11. Transaction Code ### Classify according to the following transaction codes:

A. Inward Investments Funded by IR of FX

101.0 -

101.1 -

201.0 -

208.0 -

213.0 -

Pertains to accounts covered by a new BSP Reference Number issued by a registering AAB.

Pertains to investments, covered by a new BSP Reference Number, arising from conversion of convertible securities to shares listed at an onshore exchange.

Additional investments covered by an existing BSP Reference Number issued by a registering AAB.

Additional investments covered by an existing BSP Reference Number arising from corporate action/s.

Additional investments resulting from conversion of convertible securities.

For each of the abovementioned transaction codes, use a single line-item entry and fill out all the fields under the corresponding columns of the report template.

B. Repatriation!

301.0 -

302.0 -

303.0 -

304.0 -

305.0 -

306.0 -

307.0 -

Outward remittance of divestment proceeds from BSP-registered investments in Peso government securities.

Outward remittance of divestment proceeds from BSP-registered investments in PSE-listed securities.

Outward remittance of divestment proceeds from BSP-registered investments in Peso time deposits.

Outward remittance of divestment proceeds from BSP-registered investments in Exchange Traded Funds.

Outward remittance of divestment proceeds from BSP-registered investments in Philippine Depositary Receipts.

Outward remittance of divestment proceeds from BSP-registered investments in other instruments.

Outward remittance of excess FX funding for instruments under Section 37.1 of the FX Manual.

1

Including IPDs

## Page 40

### APPENDIX 11.1B

Page xxx of xxx

For each of the abovementioned transaction codes, use a single line-item entry and fill out all the fields under the corresponding columns of the report template.

C. Other Transaction Codes?

102.0 - Pertains to reinvestments covered by a new BSP Reference Number, funded by sales proceeds of investments, issued by another registering AAB.

103.0 - Pertains to reinvestments covered by a new BSP Reference Number, funded by cash dividends/coupon payments, accruing to investment issued by another registering AAB.

104.0 - Pertains to investments covered by a new BSP Reference Number, arising from _ transfers of investments, and issued by the same or another registering AAB, including IPD funds.

104.1 - Pertains to investments covered by a new BSP Reference Number transferred from a BSRD issued directly by the BSP.

105.0 - Pertains to new BSP Reference Number issued by a registering AAB covering the consolidation or replacements of old BSRD/s.

106.0 - Pertains to investments under a new BSP Reference Number issued by a registering AAB covering other modes of funding under the FX Manual.

202.0 - Additional investments funded by sales proceeds from registered investments (reinvestment).

203.0 - Additional investments funded by cash dividends accruing to registered investments.

204.0 - Additional investments funded by IPDs. 205.0 - Stock dividends accruing to registered investments.

206.0 - Transfer of investments from one BSP Reference Number to another BSP Reference Number within the same registering AAB.

207.0 - Transfer of investments from BSP Reference Number by another registering AAB to the existing BSP Reference Number issued by the current registering ### AAB.

2

These transaction codes are not required to be reported under Annex R but shall only be used for ledger recording purposes.

## Page 41

209.0 -

210.0 -

211.0 -

212.0 -

214.0 -

215.0 -

216.0 -

217.0 -

218.0 -

401.0 -

402.0 -

402.1 -

403.0 -

404.0 -

405.0 -

406.0 -

### APPENDIX 11.1B

Page xxx of xxx

Changes to registered investments due to stock splits.

Changes to registered investments due to reverse stock splits.

Peso sales proceeds of registered investments deposited to IPDs.

Cash dividends and coupon payments accruing to registered investments deposited in IPDs.

Property dividends accruing on _ registered investments.

Additional investments transferred from a BSRD issued directly by the BSP to a BSP Reference Number issued by a registering AAB.

Roll-over of registered peso time deposits (TD).

Additional investment arising from entitlement to bonus warrant.

Additional investments under an_ existing BSP Reference Number issued by a registering AAB covering other modes of funding under the FX Manual.

Reduction in registered investments wherein sales proceeds thereon were reinvested under a BSP Reference Number issued by another registering AAB.

Contra account for reinvestments funded by cash dividends/coupon payments under a BSP Reference Number issued by a registering bank accruing on registered investments under a BSP Reference Number issued by another registering AAB.

Consolidation into or replacement of old BSRD/s with new BSP Reference Number.

Reduction in registered investments resulting from transfers of the same, covered by a BSP Reference Number issued by another registering AAB, including IPDs.

Reduction in the number of shares as a result of a corporate action/event.

Outstanding shares entitled to a bonus warrant.

Contra account arising from property dividend accruing to registered investments.

## Page 42

### APPENDIX 11.1B

Page xxx of xxx

407.0 - Reduction in investment under BSRD issued directly by the BSP as a result of transfer to a BSP Reference Number issued by registering AAB.

408.0 - Reduction in registered investment arising from conversion of convertible securities to shares listed at an onshore exchange.

12. Investment ID

The alpha code/stock symbol of the security assigned by the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) which will be the only acceptable standard. For government securities, use applicable codes like TBIL, FXTN, TBOND. For 90-day Peso bank time deposits, use TD, and for interim peso deposits, use IPD.

13. Actual Settlement Date The settlement date of the securities transaction, whether purchase or sale.

14. CIR No.

(Note: Please assign one unique CIR number for every conversion to PHP of inward FX remittance received )

The bank-assigned number for the CIR covering the FX inward remittance. ### Field format is YYYY-NNNNN-BBBBBBBBBBB where:

YYYY - is the year the CIR is issued.

NNNNN - is the series number of the CIR

BBBBBBBBBBB - is the BSP assigned numeric bank code

15. Foreign Currency Symbol (FCY Symbol)

e For registrations: The standard currency code of the original foreign currency that funded the investment.

e For remittances: The standard currency code of the foreign currency that was sold to the investor/s for repatriation of capital/remittance of earnings.

Please refer to reference libraries incorporated in the template.

16. Amount - Foreign Currency (FCY) e For registrations: The actual foreign currency amount in original currency that funded the investment. e For remittances: The amount of FCY sold to the investor/s for capital repatriation/remittance of earnings.

17. Amount - USS Equivalent Refers to the US$ equivalent of the FX remitted (net of receiving bank’s charges)

18. New/Additional Shares/Units/Face Amount/Amount e For equity instruments - new/additional shares e For fixed-income/debt securities - face amount e For UITF/MF - number of units e For other instruments (e.g., Peso time deposit) - PHP amount

19. Utilized The settlement amount in terms of Philippine Pesos.

## Page 43

### APPENDIX 11.1B

Page xxx of xxx

20. International Securities Identification Number (ISIN)/Certificate of Time Deposit (CTD)

The internationally assigned identification number for the securities. ISIN

must be provided for investment ID codes (e.g., TBIL, FXTN, TBOND or

RTB). Leave the field blank for PSE-listed shares.

For CTD - Number assigned by the bank for placement in Peso time deposits.

21. Issue Date The date when GS/TD/other Peso-denominated debt instruments was issued.

22. Maturity Date The date when GS/TD/other Peso-denominated debt instruments will mature.

23. Source of Repatriation Originate either from capital or earnings.

24. Country Where Remitted For outward remittances: The code of the country where the funds were actually remitted.

25. Actual Remittance Date The date when FX was remitted to the account of the non-resident investor/intended beneficiary.

26. Divested Shares/Units/Face Amount/Amount The corresponding number of shares/units/face amount/amount of a particular security the investor sold.

27. Peso Proceeds

The Peso proceeds from sale of investment/s or dividend income (net of applicable taxes), converted to foreign currency, for repatriation/remittance.

28. PHP to USS Rate

The exchange rate expressed between the value of Peso Proceeds versus the amount of US Dollar, regardless of actual Foreign Currency Involved, if any.

## Page 44

### APPENDIX 18

Page xxx of xxx

Guidelines and Minimum Documentary Requirements for Foreign Exchange (FX) Forward and Swap Transactions ### XXX ### A. FORWARD SALE OF FX TO COVER FX OBLIGATIONS

### - DELIVERABLE AND NON-DELIVERABLE

Transactions with specific amounts and due dates shall be eligible ### for FX forward contracts, subject to the following guidelines:

1. Xxx ### 2. XXX ### 3. XXX

### 4. INWARD INVESTMENTS

The unremitted amount of sales/maturity proceeds, as well as earnings of non-resident investors pertaining to BSP-registered investments in instruments under Sections 36.1 and 37.1 of the FX Manual may be covered by FX forward contracts, subject to the documentary requirements under Appendix 1.4 of the FX Manual.

### XXX

## Page 45

### ANNEX N

Page xxx of xxx

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT ### COMPUTATION SHEET FOR OUTWARD REMITTANCE ### FOR FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REGISTERED WITH THE BSP Date of FX Sale: <DD-MMM-YYYY>

### Name of FX Selling Bank:

### TYPE OF OUTWARD REMITTANCE FOR FOREIGN’ INVESTMENTS ### REGISTERED WITH THE BSP

L] Cash Dividends C1 Profits/Earnings [] Capital ### Investee Firm: ### Investor: ### I. FOR PROFITS/EARNINGS

### Amount of Profits/Earnings due to the Investor: BSRD No.

ll. FOR CASH DIVIDENDS

Record Date: (DD-MMM-YYYY) Payment Date: (DD-MMM-YYYY) A. Dividends

### Total Amount in PHP (A):

### No. of shares! (B):

### Rate per share in PHP (A/B): ### B. Dividends due to the Investor:

BSRD No. No. of Shares? Dividend Total Dividends Registered and Rate Due to Investor

Outstanding (D) (In PHP)

(C) (E=C x D)

1 Refers to total shares issued and outstanding as of record date 2 Out of total number of shares issued and outstanding as of record date (in footnote 1)

### Prepared by: Certified True and Correct: Signature over Printed Name Signature over Printed Name of Applicant’s Authorized Representative of Authorized Officer of FX Selling Bank ### Position: Company: Position: ### Company Tel. No.: Company Fax No.: Company Tel. No.: Company Fax No.: ### Company Email Address: Company Email Address:

### Date:

### Date:

## Page 46

### ANNEX N

Page xxx of xxx

### FOR PROFITS/EARNINGS/CASH DIVIDENDS A. Gross Peso Amount Remittable (E)

Less: Taxes/Charges

Divided by: FX Rate? ### Equals: (in orig. currency) USD Equiv. currency’) FX Rate?

moO ®

Il. FOR CAPITAL® BSRD No.

No. of Shares Registered®

Less: Taxes/Charges

mon Wp

Divided by: FX Rate*

Net Peso Amount Remittable

(if remittance

Total Amount/

Net Peso Amount Remittable

Foreign Exchange Remittable

is in third

Amount/No. of Shares Applied for Repatriation

Outstanding Balance Before This Repatriation®

Total No. of Shares/Amount for Remittance Selling Price/Share (if applicable)

Gross Peso Amount Remittable (A x B)

Equals: Foreign Exchange Remittable (in orig. currency) USD Equiv. (if remittance is in third currency‘)

FX Rate?

w

### * PHP/1.00 FCY

wu

PHP/1.00 FCY (to be supplied by FX selling bank)

For entities undergoing liquidation, sale of FX shall be subject to documentation under

Appendix 1.4 and items 1 and 4, Part II.A of Appendix 10.C (as applicable).

a

contributed capital)

### Prepared by:

Refers to number of shares (for stock corporations) or amount (e.g., assigned capital,

### Certified True and Correct:

### Position: ### Company Tel. No.:

Signature over Printed Name of Applicant’s Authorized Representative ### Company: ### Company Fax No.:

### Company Email Address:

### Date:

Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer of FX Selling Bank ### Position: ### Company Tel. No.: ### Company Email Address: ### Date:

### Company Fax No.:

## Page 47

IOD Form - Newly-issued BSP Reference Number

### Reporting Date: ### Reporting Bank:

Report Category: A-2

REPORT ON FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REGISTERED WITH THE BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) THROUGH AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs)”

### ANNEXR

Within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual Email to International Operations Department at iod_imag_fi_aab@bsp.gov.ph in pdf and.xls/.xlsx format

BSP Reference No.”

BSP Reference Number Issuance Date

Name of Foreign Investor

Country Code

Securities Account Number (if applicable)

Common/Trade Name of the Foreign Investor

Name of Ultimate Beneficiary of the Foreign Investor (if available)

” Applies to all newly-issued BSP Reference Number/s regardless of funding type (e.g., inward remittance and peso proceeds)

?/ Formerly the BSRD Number

### Certified True and Correct:

### Position:

### Tel No.:

### Email Address: ### Address:

Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer

### Department: ### Fax No.:

## Page 48

10D Form - Inward Investments

### Reporting Date: ### Reporting Bank:

REPORT ON FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REGISTERED WITH THE BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) THROUGH AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs)

### Deadline: ### ‘Submission: Report Category

Within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10.C of the FX Manual

Email to International Operations Department at iod_imag_fi_aab@bsp.gov.ph in pdf and xls/xlsx format

a2

Transaction No.

Reckoning Date

Basis of Reckoning Date

BSP Reference No.

Transaction Code

Investment ID

Actual Settlement Date

CIRNo.

FY Symbol

Amount

Fcy

US$ Equivalent

Shares/Units/Face Amount/Amount

Peso Utilized

International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) /Certificate of Time Issue Date Deposit (CTD) Number

Maturity Date

### Certified True and Correct:

### Position: Tel No.

### Email Address: ### Address:

‘Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer

### ANNEX R

## Page 49

### ANNEX R

10D Form - Repatriation Deadline: Within two (2) banking days from actual remittance date

Submission: Email to International Operations Department at iod_imag_fi_aab@bsp.gov.ph in pdf and.xls/.xlsx format Report Cateaorv: A2 REPORT ON FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REGISTERED WITH THE BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) THROUGH AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs) ### Reporting Date: ### Reporting Bank: Source of Country ‘Actual Settlement I Actual Remittance Divested Amount International Securities Identification Transaction No. BSP Reference No. Transaction Code Investment ID Repatriation where Date Date Shares/Units/Face Peso Proceeds FCY Symbol . PHP to USS Rate Number (ISIN) / Cer icate of Time Deposit pal Remitted Amount/Amount Fey US$ Equivalent (CTD) Number

### Certified True and Correct:

### Position: Tel No.

### Email Address:

### Address:

Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer

### Department: ### Fax No.:

## Page 50

### ANNEX S

Within two (2) banking days from actual settlement date or date of compliance with Appendix 10. of the FX Manual

### Deadline: Submission: Email to International Operations Department at iod_imag_fi_aab@bsp.gov.ph in pdf and.xls/xlsx format Report Category: A2

### REPORT ON FUNDING FOR FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REGISTERED WITH THE BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) THROUGH AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs)

### Reporting Date: ### Reporting Bank:

### FX RECEIVED CONVERSION FX CONVERTED ### US$ EQUIVALENT OF FX CIR NO. TO eee Nee NUNeeR REMDATE FCY SYMBOL NET AMOUNT eee veewcy Weron Nat DATE EXRATE PHP PROCEEDS AMOUNT UTILIZED CONVERTED (IF CURRENCY ### REMITTED IS OTHER THAN US: ### (IN ORIGINAL CURRENCY) REMITTANCE CHARGES) (NET OF CHARGES) (IN PHP) '$)

### Certified True and Correct:

Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer

### Position: Department: ### Tel No.: Fax No.: ### Email Address: ### Address:

## Page 51

### ANNEX AB

Deadline: 15 banking days from the end of the reference quarter Submission: E-mail to International Operations Department at iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph in pdf and .xIs/.xIsx format Report Category: A-2

REPORT ON OUTSTANDING BALANCES OF FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REGISTERED WITH THE BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) THROUGH AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs) ### AS OF:

### Reporting Bank:

BSP Reference No.*

! Investment ID” No. of Shares” Amount/Units” Amount in PHP”!

pe of Instrument” Investment Name”

* Please indicate stock certificate number for shares without BSP Ref. No. (i.e., investments acquired prior to 15 March 1973). Use the following format for dates: MM-DD-YYYY (e.g., 01-25-2023) ### V Refers to the following: PSE - PSE-listed equity securities issued by residents under Section 33.3.a.(ii) excluding ETFs, PDRs PSE-NR - Non-resident issued equity securities (onshore or offshore) that are listed at an onshore exchange under Section 34.1 Peso GS - Peso-denominated Debt securities issued onshore by the National Government and other public sector entities under Section 33.2 PesoTD - Peso time deposits with an authorized agent bank with a maturity of at least 90 days under Section 33.4 PDI - Peso-denominated Debt instruments issued onshore by private sector residents firms that are not covered by the provisions of Part Three, Chapter I of the FX Manual under Section 33.3.b.(ii) PDI-NR_ Peso denominated Debt instruments issued onshore by non-residents that are listed at an onshore exchange under Section 34.2.b ETF- Exchange Traded Funds issued/created onshore by residents under Section 33.3.c PDR - Philippine Depositary Receipts that are listed at an onshore exchange under Section 33.3.e.(ii) UITF - Peso-denominated Unit Investment Trust Fund issued onshore by a resident MF - Peso-denominated Mutual Fund issued onshore by a resident IPD - Interim Peso Deposit 2/ For PDIs in non-participating preferred shares not listed in an onshore exchange, please indicate the company name/investee firm. Otherwise, leave blank. 3/ If type of instrument is PSE, PSE-NR, ETF, PDR or PSE-listed PDI & PDI-NR, refer to the unique ticker/stock symbol/Sec ID of the PSE. If type of instrument is Peso GS, choose one (1) of the following: Fixed Rate Treasury Notes (FXTN), Retail Treasury Bonds (RTB), Benchmark Bonds (BMB) or Treasury Bills (TBIL). Otherwise, leave blank. “! If type of instrument is Peso GS, this refers to the internationally assigned identification number for the securities. ISIN must be provided for investment ID codes (e.g., TBIL, FXTN, TBOND or RTB). Leave the field blank for PSE-listed shares. Use Committee on Uniform Securities and Identification Procedures (CUSIP) when ISIN is not available. If type of instrument is Peso TD, refer to the time deposit certificate number issued by the bank. Otherwise, leave blank. 5/ Except for Peso GS, Peso TD, UITF, MF and IPD ®/ Only for Peso GS, UITF, MF and PDI in bonds/notes; otherwise, leave blank. 7/ Only for Peso TDs, IPDs and PDIs covering instruments other than bonds/notes/non-participating preferred shares; otherwise, leave blank.

### Certified True and Correct:

Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer ### Position: Department: ### Tel No.: Fax No.: ### Email Address: ### Address:

## Page 52

### ANNEX AC Reserved

## Page 53

### Reporting Bank:

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Deadili

### ANNEX AD

ie: Monthly, within five (5) banking days after end of reference month.

Submission: E-mail to International Operations Department at iod-pid@bsp.gov.ph in .pdf and .xls/.xlsx format

Cateaory: A-2

REPORT ON FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENTS (FDIs) REGISTERED WITH THE BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) THROUGH AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs)"/

### AS OF END-<MONTH> <YEAR>

### INVESTOR INVESTEE FIRM OUTSTANDING BALANCE BSRD INDUSTRY 2009 PSIC TYPE OF NUMBER OF PESO AMOUNT/ us$ NAME 7 COUNTRY” I NUMBER “ NAME */ CLASSIFICATION © CODE” INSTRUMENT ”/ SHARES ” FACE VALUE '” EQUIVALENT

V For the definition of FDI, please refer to Section 33 of the FX Manual. The computation shall be based on the outstanding shares held by the non-resident investor in the resident enterprise as of end of reference month.

2/ 3/ 4 s/ 6/ a 8/ 9 10/

Ww

Name of non-resident investor (up to securities account level)

Pertains to the country where the non-resident investor is operating

Bangko Sentral Registration Document (BSRD) Number issued to non-resident investor

Name of the resident enterprise/investee firm where an FDI relationship was determined

Industry classification of the resident enterprise/investee firm based on PSE classification

Industry code based on 2009 Philippine Standard Industrial Classification (PSIC)

Indicate PSE (for PSE-listed securities) or GS (for Government Securities)

Number of shares for PSE-listed securities as of end of reference month

Face/Peso value of the debt security or Peso market value of an equity security (using the PSE closing price at the end of reference month)

US$ equivalent using the BSP reference rate at the end of reference month

### Certified True and Correct:

### Position:

### Tel No.:

### Email Address: ### Date:

Signature of Authorized Officer Over Printed Name

### Department:

### Fax No.:

