# 1211

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR NO. 1211 Series of 2025

Subject: Reduction in Reserve Requirements

The Monetary Board, in tts Resolution Nos. 1027 and 186.A dated 5 September 2024 and 20 February 2025, approved the reduction in the reserve requirement ratios of deposit and deposit substitute liabilities of banks and non-bank financial institutions with quasi-banking functions (NBOBs).

Section 1. Section 251 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks on Required reserves against deposit and deposit substitute liabilities, as amended by Circular Nos. 1154 dated 14 September 2022, 1175 dated 23 June 2023, 1176 dated 29 June 2023, 1185 dated 13 December 2023 and 1201 dated 20 September 2024, is hereby further ### amended to read, as follows:

### 251 ACCOUNTS SUBJECT TO RESERVES; AMOUNTS REQUIRED

The following rules and regulations shall govern the reserves against deposit and deposit substitute liabilities.

Required reserves against deposit and deposit substitute liabilities. The rates of required reserves against deposit and deposit substitute liabilities in local ### currency of banks effective reserve week starting 28 March 2025 shall be as follows:

« psates Digital RBs/Coop Demand Deposits b._NOW Accounts

Cc. Savings Deposits (excluding basic I 5% I 25% I 5% 0% I 0% I deposit accounts) d. Time Deposits, Negotiable CTDs, 5% 2.5% 0%

Long-Term Non-Negotiable Tax Exempt CTDs eae 2x] eo soe [oc He besod Subainnes DS eT ee

### XXX XXX

Sen Sa EE

Peso deposits lodged under Due 5% 25% to foreign banks

Peso deposits lodged under Due ### 5% 2.5% NA NA

to Head Office/Branches/Agencies

Abroad (Philippine branch ofa

### XXX

*

## Page 2

Section 2. Section 211-Q of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions on Reserves against deposit substitutes, as amended by Circular Nos. 1175 dated 23 June 2023 and 1201 dated 20 September 2024, is hereby further amended to ### read, as follows:

### 211-Q RESERVES AGAINST DEPOSIT SUBSTITUTES

NBQBs shall maintain required reserves equivalent to five percent (5%) of peso- denominated deposit substitute liabilities as defined in Section 95 of R.A. No, 7653, as ### amended by R.A. No. 11211, regardless of maturities except:

a. XXX; b. xxx; and Cc. XXX

effective reserve week starting 28 March 2025.

Section 3. This Circular shail take effect on 28 March 2025 after its publication either in the Official Gazette or in a newspaper of general circulation.

### FOR THE MONETARY BOARD:

Qa e—_—_—_—_—_ Li M. REMOLONA, JR.

Governor AL March 2025

Page 2 of 2 