### # CL-2021-015

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021- 015

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Bankers Institute of the Philippines, Inc. (BAIPHIL) Training and Development Week

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 1248 dated 06 March 2007 (copy attached), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas highly encourages all banks to support the programs and activities of the Bankers Institute of the Philippines, Inc. (BAIPHIL) in celebration of the BAIPHIL Training and Development week on 08 to 13 March 2021.

The Bangko Sentral recognizes the integral role of the BAIPHIL in delivering quality training programs to foster innovation and sustainable growth in the Philippine banking sector. The BAIPHIL, through its continuing education, research, and information exchange programs, is regarded as a committed partner of the Bangko Sentral in promoting good governance and in enabling the banking industry to support the country’s financial reform agenda.

Digitally signed

by ChuchiG. * Fonacier Date: 2021.02.17

16:07:55 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

17 February 2021

## Page 2

Manila

### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PROCLAMATION WO. 1248

### DECLARING THE SECOND WEEK OF MARCH OF EVERY YEAR AS “BANKERS

### INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES (BAIPHIL) TRAINING AND ### DEVELOPMENT WEEK”

WHEREAS, the Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL) was organizeo in

1941 with the mission of providing support to banks towards productivity enhancement through research, information exchange and education;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL is widely acknowledged as 8 leading traning Institute — the training provider of choice not omly for banking related-seminars but more significantly for corporate governance courses as well;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, comprises the senior executives of its more than 60 institutional members and is a member of tne Asian Pacific Association of Banking Institutes (APABI); ‘

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, has played a critical role in the development and

advancement of the Philippine banking industry in the fast sixty five years that Rk has been in existence;

WHEREAS, it is imperative that the tradition of excellence in training and development that the BAIPHIL has nurtures and inculcated among its members be institutionalized, preserved and be further propagated.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtye of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby deciare the second week of March of every year as “Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL)Training and Development Week".

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed.

Done in the City of Manila, this 6th day of March in the year of Our Lord, Two Thousand and Seven.

, _— a Age ### EDUARDO R. ERMITA

PI@+mrcgar er

