### # CL-2024-031

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR ### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2024-031

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Savings Consciousness Week 2024

The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote the Savings Consciousness Week 2024 pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 380, Series of 1994 (Annex A).

This year’s Savings Consciousness Week, which will run from 30 June to 6 ### July 2024, carries the slogans:

English: A saving culture leads to a successful future! Filipino: Pera-paraan! Mag-ipon para sa magandang kinabukasan!

To enable a unified campaign for the commemoration of the Savings Consciousness Week 2024, banks are encouraged to incorporate the (1) above- cited slogans; (2) the phrase “Savings Consciousness Week, 30 June to 6 July 2024”. and (3) the hashtag #SCWeek2024 in their respective promotional materials and/or advertisements via websites, social media pages, ATM screen displays, and other appropriate channels throughout the weeklong celebration.

The prescribed art cards for this campaign may be downloaded from the BSP Website (Annex B). Banks are also encouraged to share social media cards released by the BSP in line with the activities and social media contests in observance of the Savings Consciousness Week 2024 (Annex C).

For more information, banks may contact the BSP Communication Office by e-mail at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

A. Digitally signed by Eli M. Remolona z= C Date: 2024.06.27 23:55:44 +08'00' ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR.

Governor

__ June 2024

## Page 2

### MALACANANG ### MANILA

### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### MF (023

### PROCLAMATION NO. 380

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM JUNE 30 TO JULY 6, 1994 AND EVERY ### YEAR THEREAFTER AS SAVINGS CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK

WHEREAS, Philippines 2000, the Filipino peoples vision of deve- lopment by the year 2000 recognizes that the purpose of hastening capital formation through non-inflationary means, particularly through savings with banks and other financial intermediaries, is that of accelerating the country's economic progress and development; and

WHEREAS, the drive towards the country's reaching an industria- lized status by year 2000 can be achieved only if all sectors of society fully realize, and have a continuing awareness of the vital role of savings in the development process;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, FIDEL V. RAMOS, President of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby declare the period June 30 to July 6 of this year, and every year there- after, Savings Consciousness Week, and hereby direct the Department of Finance, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas and the Department of Education, Culture and Sports to undertake such measures as may be necessary to ensure successful observance thereof, and enjoin all sectors of our society and all levels of the government -- national, provincial, city and barangay -- to extend their cooperation to this national effort.

This Proclamaltion supersedes Proclamation No. 1868 dated June 18, 1979,

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed.

Done in the City of Manila, this I day of May in the year of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and ninety-four.

### By the President:

we Cc, Received TEOFISTO/T. Boon JR. MAY 19 1984 far

Executive Secretary Date

00

### PMS LIBRARY BCODE007529

## Page 3

Annex B. Prescribed Art Cards

### SAVINGS

### CONSCIOUSNESS

### WEEK

A saving culture a eane leads toa x 06 July 2024

successful future! @

The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) joins the country in celebrating the country’s commemoration of the 2024 Savings Consciousness Week from 30 June to 06 July 2024.

With the theme “A saving culture leads to a successful future!” the BSP highlights the importance of a culture of saving and responsible financial management in creating a more financially secure future.

#SCWeek2024

### SAVINGS

### CONSCIOUSNESS

### WEEK PERA-PERAAN! 30 June to

i 06 July 2024 Mag-ipon para sa aed

Kaisa ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas sa pagdiriwang ng 2024 Savings Consciousness Week mula ika-30 ng Hunyo hanggang ika-O6 ng Hulyo 2024.

magandang kinabukasan!

Sa temang “Pera-paraan! Mag-ipon para sa magandang kinabukasan,” binibigyang-diin ang kahalagahan ng pag-iimpok bilang isang gawi at responsableng pananalapi para sa mas matatag na financial future.

#SCWeek2024

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 4

Annex C. Line-up of Activities

Handa ka na ba sa mas matatag na financial future? Makibahagi sa pagdiriwang ng Savings Consciousness Week mula Hunyo 30 hanggang Hulyo 6, 2024.

Sa buong linggo kada araw, hatid namin ang mga kaalaman tungkol sa pagpapalago ng inyong pinaghirapang pera at ipon.

30 June - 6 July 2024

‘ Qo

© Wealth Watch Wednesday

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 5

SavingsStrategiesTuesday SocMed Contest

#SavingsStrategiesTuesday #TipidTipsTuesday #SCWeek2024 2 July 2024

### SAVING

### STRATEGIES ### TUESDAY

A saving culture leads to a successful future!

= xa bane

\PID ee \-snar

wey panes”

### Mechanics:

The BSP invites the public to share their favorite saving strategies on social media by tagging the BSP’s official Facebook and Instagram pages using the hashtags #SCWeek2024 #SavingStrategiesTuesday #TipidTipsTuesday.

We

encourage netizens to share their unique and effective saving strategies to

inspire and educate others: from automatic savings transfers to DIY hacks for cutting expenses.

Select entries will be featured via BSP Facebook and Instagram pages. They will also have a chance to win exciting BSP tokens and prizes.

### How to Participate:

Share a post detailing your favorite saving strategy. This can include tips on budgeting, cutting expenses, creative ways to save, or investing small amounts. The Facebook post entry and/or Instagram account of the participant should be set to public.

Use the official hashtags #SCWeek2024 #SavingStrategiesTuesday #TipidTipsTuesday

Follow the official BSP Instagram and Facebook accounts and the PisoLit Facebook Page.

Tag the official social media accounts of BSP.

### Content Format:

Classification: GENERAL

The post can be in various formats such as text, images, infographics, videos/reels in one (1) minute or less.

## Page 6

™@ Netizens should explain their strategy clearly in GO words (for captions). @ Blur any specific logos and avoid mentioning specific banks or financial service provider in the posts.

Criteria for judging m@ The BSP will select three (3) winners based on creativity (40%) and practicality (60%) for a total of 100%.

Incentives and prizes m@ The BSP will feature the winning entries on its social media pages.

### Claiming of Prizes: m@ The BSP Manila FB account will contact the winners via their entry account to provide information on how to claim prizes for winning/featured entries.

Wealth Watch Wednesday #SCW2024 #WealthWatchWednesday 3 July 2024

30 June - 6 July 2024

### WEALTH WATCH ### WEDNESDAY

Anong mga paraan ang ginagamit mo para i-monitor ang iyong gastos?

Manalo ng exciting BSP tokens sa Ppamamagitan ng pag-share ng inyong tips.

#WealthWatchWednesday

PERA-PERAAW! Mag-ipon pa

### Mechanics:

As we promote financial well-being, the BSP encourages the public to share some stories or tips on how they monitor or manage their expenses, or even grow their finances.

Netizens may participate by tagging the BSP’s official Facebook and Instagram pages using the hashtags #SCWeek2024 #WealthWatchWednesday #FinancialFitnessWednesday

Select entries will be featured via BSP Facebook and Instagram pages. They will also have a chance to win exciting BSP tokens and prizes.

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 7

### How to Participate:

Netizens can share a post detailing how they monitor and build their finances and tag the BSP using the official hashtags #SCWeek2024 #WealthWatchWednesday #FinancialFitnessWednesday

The Facebook post entry and/or Instagram account of the participant should be set to public.

Follow the official BSP Instagram and Facebook accounts and the PisoLit Facebook Page.

Tag the official social media accounts of BSP

### Content Format:

The post can be in various formats such as text, images, infographics, or videos/reels in one (1) minute or less.

Netizens should explain their stories or tips clearly in 60 words (for captions). Blur any specific logos and avoid mentioning specific banks or financial service provider in the posts.

Criteria for judging

The BSP will select three (3) winners based on creativity (40%) and practicality (60%) for a total of 1]OO%.

Incentives and prizes

The BSP will feature the winning entries on its social media pages.

### Claiming of Prizes:

Classification: GENERAL

The BSP Manila FB account will contact the winners via their entry account to provide information on how to claim prizes for winning/featured entries. 