### # CL-2022-049

## Page 1

To

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-049

All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution Nos. TF-55 and TF-56,

Series of 2022

This is to disseminate the AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-55' and TF-56?, Series of 2022 (copies attached), directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) to take effect immediately against certain designated individuals, pursuant to their designation as terrorists by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC), in its Resolution Nos. 31 and 32, both dated 25 May 2022, and freezing without delay the following property or funds, including related accounts: (a) property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat; (b) property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and (c) property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and (d) property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation.

BSFls are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return, pursuant to, and containing the details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 10168, otherwise known as The Terrorism Financing and Prevention Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) Suspicious Transaction Report on all previous transactions of the subjects of designation within five (5) days from effectivity of the SFO.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that they know or have reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by designated individuals, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individuals, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to R.A. No. 10168 or TFPSA.

Copies of the AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-55 and TF-56 may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and strict compliance. Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.06.20 15:55:24 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

20 June 2022

1 www.amlc.gov.ph/16-news-and-announcements/386-notice-of-amlc-reso-tf-55-series-of- 2022?tmpl=component&print=1&page=; Posted on 15 June 2022 in the AMLC website. ? www.amic.gov.ph/16-news-and-announcements/387-notice-of-amlc-reso-tf-56-series-of-

2022?tmpl=component&print=1&page=; Posted on 15 June 2022 in the AMLC website.

## Page 2

### AML

-

Republic of the Philippines ### ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF- 55, SERIES OF 2022

The public, covered institutions as defined under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism- related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued resolution No. TF-55, Series of 2022, directing the issuance of Sanctions ### Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the following:

Luis G Jalandoni a.k.a. Louie/Ka Rosendo/Bernie/Lopez/Bern/ Munding /Cinco/Fernando /Andres, Central Committee member of the CPP, member of the NDF/NDFP, and founder of the designated terrorist organization Christian for National Liberation;

Simon Naugsan, Sr. a.k.a. Filiw/Wayat/Bernie /Nasse /Yasser/Arop, spokesperson of the designated terrorist organization Cordillera People’s Democratic Front, member of the CPP-NPA;

Afrecia / Apricia Alvares / Alvarez Rosete a.k.a. Bambam /Bambi/ Jamjam/Isay/Tengteng/Lalay/Laly/llay/Maymay/Lily/Lali/Danielle/ Aurora Cahayon, Secretary of the Western Mindanao Regional Party Committee of the CPP-NPA;

Maria Luisa Purcray a.k.a Byul/Nanul/Meriam/Awri/Miriam /Monica/ Viol /Rodora Guevarra / Lerma / Maou / Melba, Secretary of the Ilocos Cordillera Regional Committee of the CPP-NPA;

Maria Gigi Ascafio-Tenebroso a.k.a. Gigi / Jiji, member of the designated terrorist organization KAGUMA, finance officer of Southern Mindanao Regional Committee of the CPP-NPA, and member of the CPP-NPA; and

Walter Alipio De Asis Cerbito a.k.a. Wati, member of the designated terrorist organization Christian for National Liberation.

pursuant to their designation as terrorists by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 31 (2022) dated 25 May 2022, and the freezing without delay of the following property ### or funds, including related accounts:

property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines

Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amic.gov.phesecretariat@amlic.gov.ph

## Page 3

### AML

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and instrumentalities who

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individuals designated under Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 31 (2022), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individuals shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered persons are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from effectivity of this Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 4

-

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF- 55, Series of 2022 and ATC Resolution No. 31 (2022) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

10 June 2022, Manila.

Original Signed ### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 3 of 3

## Page 5

### AML

-

Republic of the Philippines ### ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF-56, SERIES OF 2022

The public, covered institutions as defined under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism- related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued resolution No. TF-56, Series of 2022, directing the issuance of Sanctions ### Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the following:

Basaron Arok/Basarun Aruk a.k.a. Abdulbasser/Abdulkadil/Arkam/ Bas/Bossing, sub-leader of the the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) and affiliated with the Daulah/Dawlah Islamiya (D1);

Ellam Sajirin/Ellam Nasirin/Ellam Nasarin/IIlam Nasirin a.k.a. Ellam/Illam, sub-leader of the ASG and affiliated with the DI;

Madjid Said/Majid Said a.k.a. Amah Pattit/Padin Padul/Pading/Amah Sah, sub-leader of the ASG and affiliated with the DI;

Mura Asgali Kayawan a.k.a. Salip Mura Asgali/Salip Mura/Salip Murah/Maas, sub-leader of the ASG and affiliated with the DI; and

Tawakkal Bayali/Tawakal Bayali/Tawakkal Abugaw Bayali/Tawwakal Bayali a.k.a. Abu Tawakkal/Jaber, sub-leader of the ASG and affiliated with the DI.

pursuant to their designation as terrorists by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 32 (2022) dated 25 May 2022, and the freezing without delay of the following property ### or funds, including related accounts:

a.

property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets

owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines

Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amic.gov.phesecretariat@amlic.gov.ph

## Page 6

### AML@ d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and instrumentalities who

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individuals designated under Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 32 (2022), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individuals shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered persons are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from effectivity of this Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF- 56, Series of 2022 and ATC Resolution No. 32 (2022) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

10 June 2022, Manila.

Original Signed ### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2 