### # CL-2025-009

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I REGIONAL OPERATIONS AND ADVOCACY SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2025-009

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions

Subject : Reminder on the Proper Handling of Philippine Banknotes

The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) has officially launched the First Philippine Polymer (FPP) Banknote Series on 19 December 2024, which includes the previously issued 1000-Piso denomination and introduces new designs of 500-, 100-, and 50-Piso denominations. The FPP banknote series shall circulate alongside the existing New Generation Currency (NGC)! series paper banknotes.

In support of the BSP Clean Note and Coin Policy and to prolong the lifespan of both polymer and paper substrate Philippine banknotes, the BSP reminds all BSP- Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs) to avoid unnecessary writings and/or placing marks or stamps anywhere on the banknotes’ surface. According to Section 1111 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks and Section 1111-Q of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions, banknotes with writings, marks, or stamps are considered unfit for circulation? and should be surrendered to the BSP for retirement. Moreover, the BSP reiterates its warning to the public that the willful defacement, mutilation, tearing, burning or destruction of Philippine banknotes and coins are punishable by a fine of not more than PHP20,000.00 and/or imprisonment of not more than five (5) years, under Presidential Decree No. 247 (Annex A).

Further, all BSFls are enjoined to promote the proper handling of Philippine banknotes among their personnel and clients/customers, by adhering to the following

### practices (Annex B):

Handle banknotes with care and respect to extend their lifespan;

Keep banknotes clean;

Avoid writing or marking on them;

Refrain from crumpling, tearing, cutting, or puncturing them; and

Protect them from chemicals, fire, staples, adhesives, and high heat, such as from ironing.

wp own

For information, guidance, and strict implementation.

### BERNAD ULO-PUYAT De ernor

(9 February 2025

‘Including the Enhanced NGC (eNGC) 2 Replacement and redemption of legal tender Philippine currency notes and coins considered mutilated or unfit for circulation. a. (2) It is badly soiled/contaminated and/or with writings even if it

has proper life or sizing.

## Page 2

Annex A

Presidential Decree no. 247

Anti-Mutilation Law

-it shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, mutilate, tear,

burn or destroy, in any manner whatsoever, currency notes and coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines; and

-any person who shall violate this Decree shall, upon conviction, be punished by

a fine of not more than Php20,000 and/or by imprisonment of not more than five years.

Improper handling of banknotes and coins

Writing or making Excessive crumpling or Tearing, cutting, or any marking folding perforation

Stapling or placing an adhesive

Exposing to chemicals Willful burning

## Page 3

Proper handling of banknotes

and coins

Annex B

The country’s banknotes—both paper and polymer— and coins are more than just money; they symbolize national heritage and pride. Handling them with respect honors our heritage and the natural treasures

they depict

Tips on how to properly handle banknotes and coins

ik a \;

(¥ seein sf %

- Handle banknotes with respect to

extend their lifespan

tee

- Keep banknotes and coins clean

- Do not crumple, tear, cut or

puncture them.

ee ‘ Po, Tae “2 2 * a) tS

Saye

: Exchange a coins at banks

to maintain active currency flow.

*“

_ + ORs

- Avoid writing or marking on them

- Keep them away from chemicals,

fire, staples, adhesives, and high heat, such as frorn ironing.

