### # CL-2024-011

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2024- o11

To : All Banks

Subject : Bankers Institute of the Philippines, Inc. (BAIPHIL} Training and Development Week

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 1248 dated 06 March 2007 (copy attached), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) highly encourages all banks to support the programs and activities of the BAIPHIL in celebration of the BAIPHIL Training and Development Week on 04 to 09 March 2024,

The event, which includes various learning sessions to be conducted by BAIPHIL, will carry the theme “Bridging the Digital Gap in Financial Services”.

BAIPHIL is a premier banking training institute that plays a significant role in advocating for good governance and professional development through continuing education, research, and information exchange in the banking industry. it has partnered with the BSP in the conduct of capacity building programs and research, among others, in areas including digital finance, financial literacy, financial inclusion, sustainable finance, and other prudential reform initiatives. Through its various learning and financial literacy programs, BAIPHIL also contributes to empowering financial consumers to navigate the challenges and leverage opportunities presented by the ever-evolving digital financial landscape.

### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Governor

1. March 2024

## Page 2

ses MALACANANG

Manila

### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PROCLAMATION NO. 1248

### DECLARING THE SECOND WEEK OF MARCH OF EVERY YEAR AS “BANKERS

### INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES (BAIPHIL) TRAINING AND ### DEVELOPMENT WEEK" :

WHEREAS, the Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL) was organized in

1941 with the mission of providing support to banks towards productivity enhancement through research, information exchange and education;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL is widely acknowledged as a leading training institute — the training provider of choice not only for banking related-seminars but more significantly for corporate governance courses as well;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, comprises the senior executives of its more than 60

institutional members and is a member of the Asian Pacific Association oF Banking Institutes (APABI);

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, has played a critical role in the development and

advancement of the Philippine banking industry in the last sixty five years that it has been in existence; ;

WHEREAS, it is imperative that the tradition of excellence in training and development that the BAIPHIL has nurtures and inculcated among its members be institutionalized, preserved and be further propagated.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby declare the second week of March of every year as “Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL)Training and Development Week’.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed.

Done in the City of Manila, this 6th day of March: in the year of Our Lord, Two Thousand and Seven.

