### # CL-2024-020

## Page 1

Ad BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2024- 020

To ‘ ALL BANKS

Subject ; Credit Consciousness Week 2024

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 568 series of 1995 (copy attached), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote Credit Consciousness Week, which will run from 24 to 30 April 2024. This year’s theme is Responsible credit and debt management: key to a better future [Sa responsableng pag-utang, maayos ang kinabukasan].

To unify the campaign for our celebration of Credit Consciousness Week 2024, banks are encouraged to incorporate the (1) above-cited theme; (2) the phrase “Credit Consciousness Week, 24 to 30 April 2024”; and (3) the hashtag #CCWeek2024 in your promotional materials and advertisements via websites,

social media pages, ATM screen displays, and other channels throughout the weeklong celebration.

The prescribed art card for this campaign may be downloaded from the BSP website.

For more information, banks may contact the BSP Communication Office

by e-mail at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph. Le An

### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Governor

17 April 2024

gs = -

## Page 2

Manila ### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PROCLAMATION NO. 568

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM APRIL 24 TO 30 OF EVERY YEAR AS ### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK

WHEREAS, PHILIPPINES 2000, the Filipino vision of sound development by the year 2000, recognizes the need for accelerated industrial and agricultural development by gene- rating financial resources through effective financial intermediation and sound lending operations in aid of capital formation;

WHEREAS, the drive towards the attainment of the status of a Newly Industrialized Country by -the turn of the century will be effectively boosted if all sectors of - society. are made fully aware of the vital role that capital formation and responsible credit: play in the country's economic. deve- ### lopment ; ote an :

WHEREAS, to effectively impart this awareness, it. is imperative to institute a continuing campaign that will -in- volve ail sectors of society, as well as all levels and instrumentalities of the government; —~

NOW, THEREFORE, I, FIDEL V. RAMOS, President -of.- the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in.me by law, ‘do hereby declare the period from April 24 to 30 of every year, as "CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK”.

‘;

For this purpose, the Secretary of Finance, Secretary of Education, Culture and Sport, Secretary of the Interior and Local Government, Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority, the Governor of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, as well as all heads of Depart- ments, Bureaus, Offices, Agencies, and Instrumentalities of the Government, Local Government Units of all levels, and Government-owned or. Controlled Corporations are hereby directed to undertake activities in accordance with the spirit of. this Proclamation.

The Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Chamber of Thrift Banks, the Rural Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Financial Executives Institute of the Philippines, and all members of the mass media, civic and commercial associations..-and non+governmental organizations are hereby... requested to extend their full support and cooperation in'this campaign.

## Page 3

Credit Consciousness week April 24 to 30 of every year

X 7 >> x

2 h Supersedes Proclamation No. 1837, dated March 30,

CN WEINESS WHEREOR, © toaca bier d ay syed TH bated aves

Makisend on ay Bead of Fhe Republae af The Philipines 54, Ct

Metbes ate t byes TE yo Gf Mantle, thas 25th day of Ayers in Vises Neat of tue Mard, arrestesst hapdaeed sre ninety faye,

### PMS LIBRARY

Received

ane) - tang baa’ { Le oh thw

Date

1/0

### PMS LIARARY BCODE007823

## Page 4

### ANNEX C. PRESCRIBED ART CARDS Please refer to the downloadable templates of these art card's for better resolution.

I ™- Pp ae I ie aaa

© sancko SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Responsible credit and debt key to a better f

Credit Consciousness Week

### anagement:

### Proposed Caption:

The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) joins the country in celebrating the 2024 Credit Consciousness Week from 24 to 30 April 2024.

With the theme, “Responsible credit and debt management: key to a better future,” the BSP highlights the importance of building a good credit relationship with financial service providers through sound debt management and prudent use of credit.

#CCWeek2024

Sa responsableng pag maayos ang kinab

Credit Consciousness Week 24,30 April 2024

ee Sr oe”

### Y) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Kaisa ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas sa pagdiriwang ng 2024 Credit Consciousness Week mula 24 hanggang 30 Abril 2024.

Sa temang Sa responsableng pag-utang, maayos ang kinabukasan, tampok ang kahalagahan ng wasto at responsableng paggamit ng utang upang mapagtibay ang ‘credit relationship’ sa pagitan ng mga consumers at mga financial service providers tulad ng bangko at mga lending companies.

#CCWeek2024

Classification: GENERAL 