### # CL-2025-003

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2025-003

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution No. TF-104, Series of 2025 (Notice of Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council [ATC] Resolution No. 65 [2024])

This is to disseminate AMLC Resolution No. TF-104', Series of 2025, amending Resolution No. TF-40, to take effect immediately: (a) LIFTING the Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) and Targeted Financial Sanctions (TFS) with respect to the property or funds of the delisted terrorist individuals who are excluded in ATC Resolution No. 65 (2024); and (b) MAINTAINING the SFO and other TFS with respect to the property or funds of the subjects whose designation was maintained and who are identified in ATC Resolution No. 65 (2024).

BSFls are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return pursuant to, and containing the details required, under Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) Suspicious Transaction Report on all previous transactions of the designated individual within five (5) days from the publication of AMLC’s Notice.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the designated individual under ATC Resolution No. 65 (2024), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individual; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individual, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

Copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-104, Series of 2025, may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website (www.amlc.gov.ph).

For information and strict compliance. Digitally signed by » Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2025.01.20 17:41:53 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

_20 January 2025

Att: a/s

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines ### AM RAN ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

Anti-Money Laundering Councii

### NOTICE OF TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS IN RELATION TO ### ANTI-TERRORISM COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 65 (2024)

The public, covered institutions as defined under Section 3(c) of Republic Act (RA) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), in relation to Section 3(a) of RA No. 9160 or The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2001, as amended (AMLA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti- Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding’ terrorism-related resolutions, including United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-104, Series of 2025, amending Resolution No. TF-40, to ### take effect immediately:

A. LIFTING the Sanctions Freeze Order and Targeted Financial Sanctions with respect to the property or funds of the following delisted terrorist individuals who are excluded in ATC ### Resolution No. 65 (2024):

1) Jose Maria Sison a.k.a. Joma/ Armando Liwanag/ Amado Guerrero/ Lodi/ Pete/ Al;

2) Jorge Madlos a.k.a. Ka Oris/ Mal Fuerza/ JS/ Jose/ Oloy/ Caloy/ Ando/ Tatay/ Cdr Karyo/ Raul Castro/ Kasky;

3) Abdias Gaudiana a.k.a. Abadias Guadiana/ July/ Badul/ Abdul /Mario/ Omar/ Ramon/ Dome;

4) Benito Enriquez Tiamzon a.k.a. Celo/ lyo/ Lot/ Crising Banaag/ Jing;

5) Wilma Austria-Tiamzon a.k.a. Ka Wing/ Didith/ Jana/ Pinay/ Sering/ Ria/ Azon/ Isabel/ Suarez/ Edith/ Jana;

6) Dionesio Micabalo a.k.a. Dionisio Micabalo/ Muling/ Moling/ Cardo/ Kardo/ Carpo/ Bawang/ Abu/ Jeff;

7) Pedro Heyrona Codaste a.k.a. Gonyong/ Koyoy/ Inggo/ Senyong/ Beryong/ Resurrecion Osorio; and

8) Menandro Villanueva a.k.a. Nelson/ Boss/ Dennis/ Titing/ Bok/ Ka Luis/ Book/ Willy/ Jude.

B. Maintaining the Sanctions Freeze Order and other Targeted Financial Sanctions with respect to the property or funds of the following subjects whose designation was maintained and ### who are identified in ATC Resolution No. 65 (2024):

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 « www.amlc.gov.ph e secretariat@amlic.gov.ph

## Page 3

Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 65 (2024)

1) Vicente Portades Ladlad a.k.a. Vic/ Terry/ Edgar/ Ed/ Gilbert/ Fidel/ Isagani/ Emilio/ Viady/ Dong/ Nonong/ Dino/ Ramon/ Billy/ Be;

2) Rafael De Guzman Baylosis a.k.a. Raul/ Rap/ Raffy/ Lando; 3) Julieta De Lima Sison a.k.a. Juliet/ Julia/ Julie/ Socorro/ Rojo/ Mayette/ Leah/ Maria C De Guzman/ Cdr Lita/ Jules/ Manet/ Sendang/ Yelena/ Yina;

4) Rey Claro Cera Casambre a.k.a. Bong;

5) Alan Valera Jazmines a.k.a. Alfonso Jazmines, Jr./ Tomas/ Arthur/ Tex/ Dex/ Ogie/ Andy Perez/ Juan Tivaldo/ Teroy/ Archie;

6) Adelberto Silva a.k.a. Oca/ Rigor/ Perry/ Percival Rojo;

7) Ma. Concepcion Araneta-Bocala a.k.a. Kata/ Concha/ Clara/ Remi/ Estrella/ Etang/ Ling/ Diwa/ Martha;

8) Myrna Sularte a.k.a Myrna Solarte/ lyay/ Imang/ Emang/ Bingbing/ Maria Malaya/ Josie;

9) Tirso Lagora Alcantara a.ka. Bart Sot/ Flavio/ Panginoon/ Dave/ Shane Sangria;

10) Tomas Dominado a.k.a. Pendong/ Asyong/ Greg/ Tom/ Nonoy; and

Tl) Ma. Loida Tuzo Magpatoc a.k.a. Eva/ Ka Norsen/ Bebyang/ Byang/ Elay/ Madam/ Gwen/ Adelaida Burias Tuzo

and directed the freezing without delay of the following properties or funds owned or controlled by the abovementioned designated terrorist ### individuals:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Page 2 of 4

## Page 4

Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 65 (2024)

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and ### government agencies and instrumentalities who:

]. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the designated individual under ATC Resolution No. 65 (2024), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individual; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individual,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

All covered institutions are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated individuals within five (5) days from the publication of this Notice.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds, including related accounts, are maintained as frozen are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of this Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti- Terrorism Council Resolution No. 65 (2024) may be viewed and downloaded

from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

10 January 2025, Manila

(Original Signed) ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Chairman (Governor, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas)

Page 3 of 4

## Page 5

Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 65 (2024)

(Original Signed) (Original Signed) ### EMILIO B. AQUINO REYNALDO A. REGALADO Member Member (Chairman, Securities and (Commissioner, Insurance Exchange Commission) Commission)

Page 4 of 4 