### # CL-2022-004

## Page 1

Reference No. SPRD-202201-0007

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-004

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions

Subject : Securities and Exchange Commission - Cease and Desist Order Against SCET Colleens Corporation

This is to disseminate to all BSP-supervised financial institutions, the Cease and Desist Order (CDO) issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on O7 December 2021,’ (copy attached) against SCET Colleens Corporation, its officers, directors, representatives, salesmen, agents, influencers, enablers, conduit entities, subsidiaries, and any and all persons (collectively referred to as "Agents") claiming and/or acting for and on their behalf.

The CDO: (a) enjoins these persons to cease and desist from further engaging in activities of selling and/or offering for sale of unregistered securities; and (b) prohibits them from selling, encumbering, conveying, or disposing any of its properties and/or other assets without the prior written authority from the SEC.

In addition to other directives, the CDO also prohibits SCET Colleens Corporation, its operators, directors, officers, representatives, salesmen, agents, and any and all persons claiming and acting for and on their behalf from transacting any business involving funds in its depository banks, and from transferring, disposing, or conveying In any manner, any and all assets, properties, real or personal, including bank deposits, if any, of which these named persons may have interest, claim or participation, whether directly or indirectly, under their custody, to ensure the preservation of the assets of the investors.

For information and strict compliance/implementation. Digitally signed by Chuchi G.

Fonacier Date: 2022.01.11 21:08:56 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

11 January 2022

1 The SEC Cease and Desist Order against SCET Colleens Corporation, its officers, directors, representatives, salesmen, agents, influencers, enablers, conduit entities, subsidiaries, and any and all persons (collectively referred to as "Agents") claiming and/or acting for and on their behalf may also be viewed and downloaded from the SEC website

. https:/www.sec.gov.ph/issuance/scet-colleens-corporation-2/

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines Deparment of Finance Securities and Exchange Commission

### COMMISSION EN BANC

### IN THE MATTER OF:

### SCET COLLEENS ### CORPORATION SEC CDO Case No. 11-21-075

### ENFORCEMENT AND ### INVESTOR PROTECTION ### DEPARTMENT (EIPD),

Movant.

### CEASE AND DESIST ORDER

This resolves the Motion for issuance of a Cease and Desist Order’ (the “Motion’’) filed by the Enforcemert and Investor Protection Department (EIPD) praying that an order >e issued (1) enjoining SCET Colleens Corporation (SCET Colleens), its officers, directors, representatives, salesmen, agents, influencers, ena>:ers, conduit entities, subsidiaries, and any and all persons (collectively referred to as “Agents”) claiming and/or acting for and in its behalf from further engaging in activities of selling and/or offering for sale unregistered securities; and (2) prohibiting SCET Colleens, its officers, directors, representat-ves, salesmen, agents, representatives, and any and all persons claiming and acting for and in their behalf, from selling, encumbering, conveying, or disposing any of its properties and/or other assets without the prior written authority from the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission).

### PARTIES

The EIPD is one of the Ccmmission’s operating departments tasked, among others, to investigate and institute administrative actions against persons and entities engaged in the sale and/or offer of unregistered securities without the requisite secondary license.”

SCET Colleens is a domestic ccrporation duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws o* -he Republic of the Philippines having been issued a Certificate of Incorperation with Company Registration No. CS202061878. Its principal office :s at Unit 2004, Grand Cenia Residences,

' Filed on 29 November 2021

2 Section 2-2(c)(1-c), Rule Il, Part I of the 2016 SEC Rules. eee en

okt Oa

### CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF ### THE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

I

l

## Page 3

Apitong Street Lahug, Cebu City. Its primary purpose per its Articles of ### Incorporation (Aol) is:

“To engage in retail and wholesaie trading of beauty products with the use of multilevel marketing strategy, without engaging in pyramiding scheme.

Provided that the corporation shall not solicit, accept or take

investments/placements from the public neither shall it issue investment contracts. ’* (Emphasis supplied

### Its board of directors as shown in its Aol‘ are:

Address 1074 Kalubihan Talamban, Cebu City (Capital), Cebu, Region ### VII

13A Paseo Mary Anne Maria Luisa Subd., Banilad, Cebu City (Capital), Cebu, Region ### VII

9 St. John Road Sacred Heart Village, Salvador Labangon, Cebu City (Capital), Cebu, Region ### VII Blk 12A Lot 11, Camella Solamente, Sorosoro Ibaba, Batangas City (Capital), Batangas, Region IV-A

13A Paseo Mary Anne Maria Luisa Subd., Banilad, Cebu City (Capital), Cebu, Region ### VII

### KAY ANNE CUIZON ### I LEYSON

### FILIPINO

### EDITH FRANCISSE ### VILLEGAS ### TABLANTE

### FILIPINO

### ARTEMIO TARONA I FILIPINO PONCE, Jr.

### SHARA JANE ### CASAO CHAVES

### FILIPINO

### EARL STA. RITA ### SAGUINDEL

### FILIPINO

I

### RELEVANT FACTS

On August 2021, the EIPD began receiving numerous complaints, reports and inquiries® on the alleged investment-taking and/or solicitation activities of SCET Colleens which prompted it to commence investigation for possible violation(s) of the Secur-t:es Regulation Code (SRC), the Revised

> Annex “B” of the Motion. aise * Supra. CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF * Annex “D” of the Motion. Mik DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

### BY

## Page 4

Corporation Code (RCC), and relevant rules and regulations enforced by the Commission.

Based on its investigation, the EIPD was able to gather and verify information that SCET Colleers is selling and/or offering investment packages and promos which require/entice potential investors to invest an amount ranging from a minimum of Three Thousand Eight Hundred Pesos (Php3,800.00) to One Million Eighty Thousand Pesos (Php1,080,000.00) with a guaranteed passive return of five percent (5%) to eight percent (8%). The investment scheme which SCET Collcens proffers and/offers to the public consists of the SUB-RESELLER DISTRIBUTOR, RESELLER ### DISTRIBUTOR, CITY DISTRIBUTOR, PROVINCIAL DISTRIBUTOR, ### REGIONAL DISTRIBUTOR, STARTER, JUMSTART, DELUXE, PRO ELITE, AND DIAMOND compensation plans/packages. The EIPD was also able to confirm and submit eviderce showing that SCET Colleens was using a fake certificate purportedly issued by the Corporate Governance and Finance Department (CGFD) authorizing SCET Colleens to solicit, accept/take investments, to convince the investing public that its investment scheme is legitimate, and to entice -he later to invest with it.

In support of its allegation and conclusion that SCET Colleens is engaged in the unauthorized sale/offer of securities, which confirmed the complaints and reports that were fled with and/or received by it, the EIPD submitted screenshots of relevart online posts of SCET Colleens which were obtained and gathered from SCET Colleens’ website, i.e. www.scetcolleenscorp.com, which was primarily used in carrying out the unauthorized investment-taking activities.

The EIPD also maintains tha: SCET Colleens’ investment scheme is an indication of a Ponzi scheme where returns are likely to be paid from the investments of new investors.

Based on the allegations and evidence presented by the EIPD, the ### modus operandi of SCET Colleens is as follows:

1) SCET Colleens gains the attention of and invites the investing public to part with their hard-earned money through its website by promising a guaranteed return of 5-8% per month, a quarterly payout, and profit shares;

2) In order to entice and assure the public of legitimacy of its investment scheme, interested investors are then presented with various legal documents to support its unauthorized investment-taking activities, including a fake CGFD Certification showing that it is authorized to solicit funds from the public; and

3) Potential investors are then directed to deposit amounts based

on the distributor packages of their choice.

### THE DOCUMENTS ON R

### CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF ### CORD

I

## Page 5

Moreover, the EIPD also concluded, based on its investigation, that SCET Colleens employed fraud and deceit in inducing investors to part with their money by using a fake certification from the CGFD despite full knowledge that its Aol clearly states that it “shall not solicit, accept, or take investments/placements from the public neither shall it issue investment contracts”.

The EIPD was however able to secure a Certification from the CGFD® stating that it has not issued any certificate to SCET Colleens authorizing the latter to solicit investments from the public, and confirming that the certification being used and circulated by SCET Colleens is a falsified document. The EIPD also secured a certification from the Commission’s Markets and Securities Regulaticn Department (MSRD)’ stating that SCET Colleens has not been issued a Permit to Sell Securities has no pending application for registration to engage in such activities. On account thereof, the EIPD concluded that while SCET Colleens is a registered entity with the Commission, it is not authorized to solicit funds nor sell securities to the public, and the investment packages which it sells/offers to the public violates Sections 8, 12, 26, and 28 of the Securi-ies Regulation Code (SRC).

On 2 September 2021, the Commission issued an Advisory® declaring that SCET Colleens is not zuthcrized to solicit, accept or take investments/placements from the public nor to issue investment contracts and other forms of securities as defined under the law as it does not have a secondary license from the Commission. In the same Advisory, the Commission made it clear that the certification circulated by SCET Colleens is fake and that its Certificate of Incorporation does not constitute an authority or license to engage in activities tat require a secondary license, such as the selling of securities to the public.

The EIPD also requested she Commission’s Cebu EO assistance to conduct further investigation on SCET Colleens’ unauthorized investment- taking activities, which schedulec a conference and attempted to serve a Notice of Conference to SCET Ccheens and its the incorporators/directors at the principal address of the corporation. However, Mr. Felix Lopez of Cebu EO failed to serve the Notice as the of<ice has been deserted since the year before, and SCET Colleens directors Tablante and Saguindel were found not to be residing in the residential address stated in the Aol as of the end of August 2021.°

On the basis of the foregoing information and evidence, the EIPD submits that SCET Colleens is engaged in unauthorized investment taking activities, specifically in the sale and/or offer of unregistered securities in the form of investment contracts without the requisite license from the

° Annex “F” of the Motion. SEC OG 7 Annex “G” of the Motion. * Annex “H” of the Motion, CERTIFIED TRUE COPY Of ° Annex “I” of the Motion, THE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

### PA

## Page 6

Commission, in violation of the SRC which warrants the issuance of a CDO to protect the investing public. The EIPD also concluded that SCET Colleens’ investment scheme constitutes se=ous misrepresentation as to what it can or cannot do as a corporation considering that its Aol does not authorize it to solicit or offer investments from the public.

Hence, the instant Motion. ### ISSUE

Whether the issuance of a cease and desist order against SCET Colleens is warranted based on the findings znd evidence presented by the EIPD.

### RULING

The Commission finds the ifotion meritorious and hereby grants the same.

The EIPD’s Motion as supported by substantial evidence was able to establish that SCET Colleens was offering and/or selling unregistered securities in the form of investment contracts to the public without the requisite license from the Commission.

### Section 3 of the SRC defines “securities” as follows:

“SEC. 3. Definition of Terms. —

3.1. “Securities” are shares, participation or interests in a corporation or in a commercial enterprise cr scofit-making venture and evidenced bya certificate, contract, instrument, whether written or electronic in character. ### It includes:

### XXX

(b) Investment contracts, certificates of interest or participation in a profit sharing agreement, certificates >f deposit for a future subscription;” (Emphasis supplied)

### An "investment contract" is Gefined as follows:

“An investment contract means a contract, transaction or scheme whereby a person invests his money im a common enterprise and is led to expect profits primarily from the efforts of others. It is presumed to exist whenever a person seeks to 2se the money or property of others on the promise of profits.

A common enterprise is deemed created when two (2) or more investors “pool” their resources, creating a common enterprise, even if the promoter receives nothing more -han a 3roker’s commission."!" (Emphasis

supplied) _— ore

She Oo

” Rule 26.3.5 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the SRC,

### CERTIFIED TRUE COPY O ### THE DOCUMENTS ON RFEC¢

## Page 7

In the case of SEC vs. Howey Co ."! the US Supreme Court defined an investment contract as a contract or scheme for the placing of capital or laying out of money in a way intended to secure income or profit from its

employment. Investment contraczs have been used and adopted in various situations where individuals were led to invest money in a common enterprise with the expectation that they would earn a profit through the efforts of the promoter or of someone other than themselves.!?

In Power Homes Unliméted Corporation v. Securities and Exchange Commission,’ the Supreme Court enumerated the elements of an investment contract to be considered as a security subject of regulation by the ### Commission, to wit:

1) There is an investment of money;

2) The investment is made in a common enterprise;

3) There is an expectation 27 profit; and

4) Profit is derived primarily from the efforts of others.

Under this definition, whenever an investor relinquishes control over his or her funds and submits their control -o another for the purpose of deriving profits from them, he or she is in fact investing in a security. '4

Applying the foregoing to the instant case, this Commission finds that SCET Colleens is unlawfully engeged in the sale and/or offer of securities in the form of investment contract.

First, SCET Colleens required its investors to invest the amount ranging from a minimum of Taree Thousand Eight Hundred Pesos (Php3,800.00) to One Million E:ghty Thousand Pesos (Php1,080,000.00) which guarantees passive returns o7 5% -o 8% with a guaranteed 68% capital return at the 12" month. Relative <aereto, the evidence on record shows that there was an actual investment of money made by the public with SCET Colleens in amounts reaching as high as Php825,800.00 from a single individual!? up to an accumulated amount of Php5,000,000.00 from various investors as alleged by comrla:nant Mr. Keven John Harvey.'® The investments made were verified by the EIPD from investors who are now demanding the guaranteed retums of their investments.

### 11328 U.S, 293 (1946).

"2 Thid. Although the definition as stated in th2 Eowey Case qualified that the earning of profit was expected to be solely through the efforts of another parcy, Rule 26 3 of the 2015 IRR of the SRC replaced the qualifier with “primarily”, acknowledging that an investment comract may still be present where the individual who placed the money exerted a small amount of effar- :n an sttempt to earn the profits. a ° GR. No. 164182, 26 February 2008. ,

'* Investment Co. Institute v. Camp, 274 F. Susp, 424 (D D.C. 1967). _— 'S Page 15, Annex “D” of the Motion CERT i D TRUE COPY of 16 Page 20, Supra. THE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

## Page 8

Second, there is a commcn enterprise. The EIPD's findings in the course of its investigation showed that investors place at least an amount of P3,800.00 to invest in SCET Colleens in order to receive a passive income of 5% to 8% and participate in other investment-earning schemes. SCET Colleens’ investors pool their monies with the Respondent in order to maintain and sustain the company’s investment scheme and earn profits from the same.

Third, the investor expects <o carn profits from the amounts invested with SCET Colleens. Based on its adver-isements, SCET Colleens guarantees lucrative passive returns of 5% to 2% per month and other bonuses with little or no risk.

### SCET Colleens offer flexible membership as follows:

SC Distributorship (Active — Passive Income) 12 Months SC Rebates (Bloom Kit) (Quarterly Rebates) 9 months SC Investment (Purely Passive Income) 6 months

The Diamond Package offers 8% monthly compensation share of 8% and a capital return of 68% on the 2" month.

A referral bonus is also ozfered based on the starter, deluxe, pro, elite packages ranging from P3,800.00 ta P3*9,000.00.

The different profits that may be earned from the various schemes offered by SCET Colleens, which the latter expressly guaranteed, are the primary motivation of the public to invest their hard-earned money with the SCET Colleens.

Relative thereto, it is apperent from the evidence on record that investors relied on SCET Colleens’ promise of guaranteed returns which was supported by the spurious certificet:on purportedly issued by the CGFD. This even prompted one investor to invest an aggregate amount of Five Million Pesos (Php5,000,000.00),!’

Fourth, SCET Colleens’ investors expected to earn profits from the efforts of others.

In the earning schemes presented by SCET Colleens, it can be clearly seen that the investor earns without sigr-ficant effort or obligation, and what is merely required from investors is simple act of choosing their package of choice and investing the appropriate amount. Thus, the expectation of profits is derived primarily from the entrepreneurial and managerial efforts of SCET Colleens, its agents or representa-ives who, through the use of the company’s website, and social media accouxs and platforms, continue to entice the public to invest in SCET Colleens and earn guaranteed-returns;-—-—------—- -~

Shel Coa ### ————— CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF " Annex “D” of the Motion, I FHE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

PAG 7 O} ee, P

## Page 9

*® Rule 3.1.17 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the SRC. Note 24, Supra.

Furthermore, the act of SCET Colleens in publishing in its website various propaganda and advertisemen:s to entice the general public to invest their money and earn guaranteed rrofits constitute public offering of securities ### as defined under Rule 3.1.17 of the 2015 IRR of the SRC, to wit:

“3.1.17. Public offering is amy offering of securities to the public or to anyone, whether solicited cr unsolicited. Any solicitation or presentation of securities for sale through any of the following modes shall be presumed ### to be a public offering:

XExX 3.1.17.3 Advertisement or announcement in radio, television, telephone,

electronic communications, information communication technology or any other forms of communication;” * (Emphasis supplied)

Section 8.1 of the SRC categorically provides that securities shall not be sold or offered for sale or distr-bution within the Philippines, without a ### registration statement duly filed with and approved by the Commission, thus:

“SEC. 8. Requirement of Registration of Securities. — 8.1 Securities shall

not be sold or offered for saiz or distribution within the Philippines, without a registration statement duty filed with and approved by the

Commission. Prior such sale, inrormation on the securities, in such form and with such substance as ta2 Commission may prescribe, shall be made available to each prospective purchaser." (Emphasis and underscoring supplied)

In connection thereto, Section 12.1 of the SRC states that all securities required to be registered under Subsection 8.1 shall be registered through the filing by the issuer in the main cffice of the Commission, of a sworn registration statement with respect to such securities, in such form and containing such information anc documents as the Commission shall prescribe. In the case of Power Homes Unlimited v. Securities and Exchange ### Commission, '° the Supreme Cour: ruled that:

"As an investment contract tha: :s secur:ty under R.A. No. 8799, it must be registered with public respondent SEC, otherwise the SEC cannot protect the investing public from fraudulent securities. The strict regulation of securities is founded on the prerrise that the capital markets depend on the investing public's level of con‘idence ir. the system."

In the instant case, evidence zdduced by the EIPD showed that SCET Colleens is offering its investment schemes publicly through online advertisements using its througk -ts website and relevant social media platforms to potential investors wi-hout prior registration.

### Relative thereto, Section 64 cf the SRC provides that:

“Section 64. Cease and Desist Order. — 64.1. The Commission, after

proper investigation or verificatior, motu proprio or “thon vented

Skt OGac

### KY

### CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF ### THE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

“Oe

'« ### HS

I I

## Page 10

complaint by any aggrievec party, may issue a cease and desist order without the necessity of a prier hearing if in its judgment the act or practice, unless restrained, wil] operate as a fraud on investors or is otherwise likely to cause grave or irreparable injury or prejudice to the investing public.” (Emphasis surpliec)

There are two (2) essential -equirements that must be met prior to the ### issuance of a cease and desist order:

1) There must be a concuct of a proper investigation or verification; and

2) There must be a finding that the act or practice, unless restrained, will operace es a fraud on investors or is otherwise likely to cause grave ar irreparable injury or prejudice to the investing public.”

Anent the first requisite, the records show that the EIPD in coordination with the Cebu EO conducted a proper irvestigation as evidenced by its report and the various documents gathered and submitted in support of its Motion showing the conduct of SCET Caileens’ unauthorized investment schemes. The EIPD specifically presented -he following evidence in support of its Motion: (1) Certifications from the Commission's MSRD and CGFD certifying that SCET Colleens is not licensed to offer/sell securities: (2) Complaints from the public who were cefrauded by SCET Collcens and who are now demanding for the returns of their investment guaranteed by the company; (3) A copy of the falsifiec document bearing the CGFD’s letterhead purportedly authorizing SCET Collzens to solicit funds from the public; (4) Investigator’s affidavit which attested to the veracity of the information received from the public about tre unauthorized investment-taking activities of SCET Colleens. Screenshots of -he website, and relevant online posts in social media were included in the affidavit as faithful reproductions of such ### online posts and presentations.”:

The foregoing shows that tae EIPD complied with the legal requirement relating to the conduct of an inves-igzaticn as a pre-requisite to the issuance of a CDO.

The second requisite is likewise present considering that SCET Colleens employed fraud when -t useé a spurious Certification from the ### CGED.

### Section 26 of the SRC proviaes, tc wit:

“Section 26. Fraudulent Transactions. — It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly. in connection with the purchase or sale of ### any securities to:

“4s eae . . . Sin CCM * Securities and Exchange Commission vs. Performance T. oreign Exchange Corporation, G.R. No. 154131, July 20, 2006. CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF 21 Annexes “E-1” to “E-2” of the Motion, TIE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

## Page 11

26.1. Employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;

26.2. Obtain money or proper-y by means of any untrue statement of a material fact of any omission t2 staze a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in -he light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading: or

26.3. Engage in any act, transaction, practice or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person.” (Emphasis supplied)

In People of the Philippines «s. Mateo, et al.”?, the Supreme Court held ### that fraud is a generic term that cevers any act calculated to deceive, thus:

“Fraud, in its general sense, is deemed to comprise anything calculated to deceive, including all acts, omissions, and concealment involving a breach of legal or equitable cu-y, trust, or confidence justly reposed, resulting in damage to another, or by which an undue and unconscientious advantage is taken of another. It is a generic term embracing all multifarious means which human ingenuity can devise, and which are resorted to by onz individual to secure an advantage over another by false suggestions or by suppression of truth and includes all surprise, trick, cunning, dissemtling and any unfair way by which another is cheated. On the other hand, deceit is the false representation of a matter of fact, whether by words cr conduct, by false or misleading allegations, or by concealment cf tha: which should have been disclosed which deceives or is intended to deceive another so that he shall act upon it to his legal injury.” (Emrhas:s supplied)

In this case, SCET Colleens intentionally used, presented, and circulated a fake certification purportedlv issued by the Commission’s CGFD to make it appear to investors thet it is authorized to solicit funds from the public and that such investment-taking activity is legitimate. SCET Colleens thus succeeded to con the public to invest in its business by means of fraud.

Moreover, a careful evaluat:cn and analysis of the operations of SCET Colleens will readily show that its susitess model is not sustainable in view of its minimal capitalization vis-é-vis ts promised returns. To emphasize, with an authorized capital stock 0? only PhP1,000,000.00”, SCET Colleens effectively promises to investors 2 100% returm of investments which at present amounts to Php9,375,809.7+

In the absence of a secondary license, SCET Colleens should be restrained from offering or selling securities in the form of investment contracts.

Finally, SCET Colleens’ act of selling and/or offering unregistered securities warrants the prompt issuance of a cease and desist order as it

® G.R. No. 210612, October 9, 2017. ; 3 Annex “B” of the Motion. as ** Total amount of capital investments made by tne 2onp_ainants, Annex “D” of thei Mtationt Dimited to they ©! complainants who made their plights known, thus she real amount may be higherH1: DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

I PAGI (dD [3 _ PAGES I

1 5

## Page 12

operates as a fraud to the public which, :f unrestrained, will likely cause grave or irreparable injury or prejudice te the nvesting public.” The Supreme Court categorically held in Securities ard Exchange Commission vs. CJH ### Development Corp.” that:

“The law is clear on the point that a cease and desist order may be issued by the SEC motu proprio, it 5eing unnecessary that it results from a verified complaint from an aggrieved pzrty. A prior hearing is also not required whenever the Commission finds it appropriate to issue a cease and desist order that aims to curtail fraud or grave or irreparable injury to investors. There is good reasen for this provision, as any delay in the restraint of acts that yield such results can only generate further injury to the public that the SEC is obliged to protect.

The act of selling unregistered securities would necessarily operate as a fraud on investors as it deceives the investing public by making it appear that respondents have authority to deal on such securities. Section 8.1 of the SRC clearly states that securities shall not be sold or offered for sale or distribution within che Philippines without a registration statement duly filed with and approved by the SEC and that prior to such sale, information on the securities, in such form and with such substance as the SEC may prescribe, shall be made available to cach prospective buyer.” (Emphasis supplied)

WHEREFORE, premises considered, SCET Colleens Corporation, its directors namely, KAY ANNE CUIZON LEYSON, EDITH FRANCISSE ### VILLEGAS TABLANTE, ARTEMIO TARONA PONCE, JR., SHARA JANE CASAO CHAVES, and EARL STA. RITA SAGUINDEL, its operators, officers, including Shara Jane Chavez Cruzat, representatives, salesmen, agents, and any and all persons claiming, acting, and operating for and in their behalf, are hereby ordered 7o IMMEDIATELY CEASE AND DESIST from engaging in the anlawful/unauthorized solicitation, offer and/or sale of securities in the form of -nvestment contracts or any others of the same nature, as discussed in this Cease and Desist Order, until the requisite registration statement is du'v filed with and approved by the Commission,

SCET Colleens Corporation, its operators, directors, officers, representatives, salesmen, agents end anv and all persons claiming and acting for and in their behalf are likewise cirected to CEASE their internet presence relating to the transactions and investment scheme covered by this Cease and Desist Order. The Commission wii. inszitute the appropriate administrative and criminal action against any persons or entities found to act as solicitors, information providers, salesmen, agents, brokers, dealers or the like for and in their behalf

Finally, the Commissior nereby PROHIBITS SCET Colleens Corporation, its operators, directcrs, officers, representatives, salesmen,

agents and any and all persons claiming end acting for and in their behalf from: ~~

NE Oye

* Section 64 of the Securities Regulation Code. 26 (G.R. No. 210316, November 28, 2016)

### CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF ### THE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

‘

I I

## Page 13

transacting any business involving funds in its depository banks, and from transferring, disposing, or conveving in any manner, any and all assets, properties, real or personal, including bank deposits, if any, of which the named persons herein may have interest, claim or participation, whether directly or indirectly, under their custody, to ensure the preservation of the assets of the investors

The EIPD of the Commission is hereby DIRECTED to cause (a) the posting of this Order in SCET Cclieens Corporation’s principal office and in the Commission’s website, and (b) the publication of the same in a newspaper of general circulation as provided for under Section 4-2, Rule IV, Part I of the 2016 Rules of Procedure of the SEC.

The EIPD is FURTHER DIRECTED to submit a formal compliance report, by way of pleading, to the Commission En Banc WITHIN TEN (10) DAYS from receipt of this Cease and Desist Order.

Let a copy of this Order be furnished to the Company Registration and Monitoring Department, Marke: and Securities Regulation Department, Corporate Governance and Finance Department and the Information and Communications Technology Department of this Commission, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, the Department cf Trade and Industry, the National Privacy Commission and the Department of Information and Communications Technology for -heir :nformation and appropriate action.

In accordance with the provisions of Section 64.3 of the SRC and Part II, Rule IV, Section 4-3 of the 2016 2ules of Procedure of the SEC, the Respondent may file a verified Motion to Lift the CDO to the Commission En Banc thru the Office of the General Counsel, within five (5) days from receipt of this Order.

### FAIL NOT UNDER PENALTY OF LAW. ### SO ORDERED.

Pasay City, Philippines; 07 Decertber 2021,

4

" EMILIO B Ay UINO Chairpprson (

ae ere EPHYRO Za B. Q MATONG JAVEY PAUL D. FRANCISCO Commissioner Commissioner a

Shee OC

### THE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

{

### I CERTIFIED TRUE COPY OF ### PA

I

{ ky a

## Page 14

### KEL

### ESTER K. LEE Commissioner

WiC A i I

KARLD k. BELLO Commissioner

shi CoH

CERTIFIED TRUE COPY oO}

### JHE DOCUMENTS ON RECORD

PAGH 13 Ot /3 P

‘ 