### # CL-2023-036

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-036

To All Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Supervised Financial Institutions Subject Disqualification from Registration with the Bangko Sentral

ng Pilipinas (BSP) of Six (6) Entities Operating as Money Service Businesses (MSBs) Without Prior BSP Registration

The Monetary Board, approved the disqualification’ of the below listed Entities and any sole proprietorship owned and/or controlled by their respective owners/operators from registering with, and/or obtaining a license from the BSP to engage in any activity authorized or supervised by the BSP for operating as MSBs without prior BSP registration.

Name of Owner/Operator Mohammad S. Sauti

Entity Location

Bontoy Money Changer

House No. 413, Antonio Bldg., Arnaiz Ave. St., Barangay 107, Pasay City, Metro Manila

Nurul Money Changing Services

No. 2823-B Taft Avenue St., Zone 10, Barangay 83, District 1, Pasay City, Metro Manila

Yaser H. Pacundo

Globexmce Foreign Exchange Services

G/F 5051 P. Burgos St., Brgy. Poblacion, 1210 Makati City

Shelly Mohammad Tillah

J-Mar Foreign Exchange 2 Constellation St. Cor. I Fahadmajiel Sakaluran Service Makati Ave., Bel-Air, 1209 Makati City

Money Changer

De Leon Bldg., Gen. Hizon Ave., Sto. Rosario, City of San Fernando, Pampanga

Mary Grace S. Santos

Mariada Money Exchange Services

G/F The E-Hotel Bldg., 906 A. Arnaiz Ave., San Lorenzo, Makati City

Rauf Haroun Mohammad

For information and guidance.

23 June 2023

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2023.06.23

10:23:43 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

1 Under MB Resolution Nos. 462.A, 598.A, and 421.A dated 31 March 2022, 28 April 2022, and

24 March 2022, respectively,

