### # CL-2022-064

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-064

To : ALL BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) - ### SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Subject : Disqualification from BSP Registration of Money Service Businesses Operating Without Prior BSP Registration

For its failure to register with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) as a Money Service Business (MSB), the Monetary Board (MB), in its Reso/ution No. 702 dated 19 May 2022, has disqualified ASLE-ELISE ENTERPRISE (ASLE- ELISE), with business address at Stall 208 Sari Sari Proper, City Market, Kayang Hilltop, Baguio City, owned and operated by a certain Elsa B. Lee, from registering with the BSP and/or obtaining a license to engage in any activity that is authorized, supervised or regulated by the BSP in relation to MSB operation. For the same reason, the MB also disqualified CJT MONEY ### CHANGING AND REMITTANCE SERVICES/C3JT REMITTANCE SERVICES (CJT), an unregistered MSB, with business address at Stall 148 Sari Sari Proper, City Market, Kayang Hilltop, Baguio City, owned and operated by a certain Cherry Jane P. Tolidan.

The MB disqualification also extends to any sole proprietorship owned and/or controlled by Messrs. Lee and Tolidan which may be engaged in MSB operation.

The above disqualification is pursuant to Section 901-N of the BSP’s Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions, and is part of BSP’s efforts to crack down on illegally operating MSBs.

Digitally signed by

For information and guidance. a on 08 August 2022

### LYN 1 JAMIE Sector7in-Chatge

08 August 2022

Page 1 of 1 