### # CL-2022-019

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022- 019

To : All Participants’ of Payments Systems in the Philippines

Subject: Notification to Public of the Designation of the Philippine Domestic Dollar Transfer System (PDDTS) and the PhP-USD Payment vs. Payment System (PvP) as Systemically Important Payment Systems (SIPS)

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 243 dated 17 February 2022, approved the designation of the Philippine Domestic Dollar Transfer System (PDDTS) and the PhP-USD Payment vs. Payment System (PvP) as Systemically Important Payment Systems? (SIPS) in accordance with Republic Act No. 11127 or the National Payment Systems Act (NPSA) and Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Circular No. 1089 or the Payment System Oversight Framework (PSOF).

The PDDTS and PvP have been established by the Bankers Association of the Philippines (BAP) and are currently operated by the Philippine Clearing House Corporation (PCHC). Pertinent to said payment systems, the PCHC is granted by the BSP authority as operator of designated payment systems (ODPS) pursuant to Section 6 of the NPSA. As an ODPS, PCHC shall ensure (a) safe, efficient, and reliable operations of the PDDTS and PvP; (b) observance of the applicable Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures* (PFMI) for SIPS pursuant to the BSP regulations on the adoption of the PFMI; and (c) compliance with the applicable requirements for an ODPS under the NPSA, PSOF and subsequent regulatory issuances.

Participants of the PDDTS and PvP, including critical service providers* of the aforementioned systems, shall adhere to the rules, standards and requirements promulgated by the BSP, including the BSP Guidelines set forth for the participants of PDDTS and PvP, and fulfill their respective roles to ensure safety, efficiency, and reliability of the PDDTS and PvP,

For information and guidance.

QC oG ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

62 March 2022

' As defined under the National Payments Systems Act, a ‘participant’ is the operator, issuer, service provider, or any person involved in the payment system other than the end-user. ;

2 A payment system which poses or has the potential to pose systemic risk that could threaten the stability of’. : °*. the national payment system: As defined in BSP Circular 1089 series of 2020, or the PSOF. oe

3 - BSP Circular No. 1126 series of 2021.

4 As defined under the PSOF 