### # CL-2022-002

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022 -Q02.

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFis) and Other Relevant Stakeholders Subject : Open Finance Oversight Committee Transition Group

Further to BSP Circular Letter No. CL-2021-090 dated 18 November 2021 which recognized the Open Finance Oversight Committee Transition Group (OFOC TG) as the interim governing body to lead the constitution of the formal OFOC pursuant to BSP Circular No. 1122, Series of 2021, the official list of primary and alternate OFOC TG ### Members is hereby published below:

i [waren ——seeay ee Universal and Bank of the Mr. Jonathan John B. Mr. Frederick M. Commercial Philippine Islands Paz, Vice-President and I Faustino,

Banks (UKBs) (BPI) Data Protection and Division Head, Business Enterprise Information I Development and Security Officer Onboarding, Digital Channels Group Thrift Banks Philippine Savings Mr. Noli S. Gomez, Mr. Emmanuel A. (TBs) Bank (PSBank) Executive Vice Tuazon, Senior Vice President and President and Head of Operations Group Head I Marketing and Communications Group

Rural Banks Cantilan Bank, Inc. Ms. Tanya P. Hotchkiss, I BGen Charles Y.

(RBs) (A Rural Bank) Executive Vice Hotchkiss (Ret), CANBK) President President

Digital Banks Tonik Digital Bank, I Ms. Maria Lourdes Mr. Victor Q. Lim, Jr., Inc. (TONIK) Jocelyn S. Pineda, Chief Operating Officer

President

E-Money Issuer- I OmniPay, Inc. Mr. Wilfred G. Tan, Chief I Ms. Anna Liza Eugenio-

Others (EMI- (OMNIPAY) Technology Officer Alincastre, Chief

Others) Operating Officer

Operators of CIS Bayad Center, Mr. Edward Joseph Mr. Dennis S. Gatuslao, Payment Inc. (CISBC) Inza-Cruz, Chief Chief Marketing Officer Systems (OPS) Product Officer FinTech Common Ms. Imelda C. Tiongson, I Atty. Mark S. Gorriceta, Representative from I Trustee and Chair of Managing Partner, FinTech Alliance.PH I TechnoEthics Gorriceta Africa Cauton and FinTech & Saavedra Philippines Association

## Page 2

For information and guidance.

COG ay ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

Of January 2022

Page 2 of 2 