### # CL-2022-016

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR ### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-016

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Bankers Institute of the Philippines, Inc. Training and Development Week

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 1248 dated 06 March 2007 (copy attached), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to support the programs and activities of BAIPHIL in celebration of the BAIPHIL Training and Development Week, which will run from 07 to 12 March 2022. This year’s theme is BAIPHIL@80: Building Resilience Through Strong Governance.

The BSP recognizes the vital role of BAIPHIL in helping the banking community adapt to the evolving needs of the industry and consumers in the new economy. Its capacity-building programs are consistent with BSP’s overarching objective of maintaining stability of the country’s financial system.

Cc & & ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

1\ February 2022

## Page 2

ae MALACANANG Manila

### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES ### PROCLAMATION NO. 1248

### DECLARING THE SECOND WEEK OF MARCH OF EVERY YEAR AS “BANKERS ### INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES (BAIPHIL) TRAINING AND ### DEVELOPMENT WEEK”

WHEREAS, the Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL) was organized in- 1941 with the mission of providing support to banks towards productivity enhancement through research, information exchange and education;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL is widely acknowledged as a leading training institute — the training provider of choice not only for banking related-seminars but more significantly for corporate governance courses as well;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, comprises the senior executives of its more than 60 institutional members and is a member of the Asian Pacific Association of Banking Institutes (APABI);

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, has played a critical role in the development and

advancement of the Philippine panking industry in the last sixty five years that it has been in existence;

WHEREAS, it is imperative that the tradition of excellence in training and development that the BAIPHIL has nurtures and inculcated among its members be institutionalized, preserved and be further propagated. -

NOW, THEREFORE, I, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby declare the second week of March of every year as “Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL)Training and Development Week”.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed.

Done in the City of Manila, this 6th day of March: in the year of Our Lord, Two Thousand and Seven.

### V ### By th D Zresiaent:

Ao $— Ulin ### EDUARDO R. ERMIT

## Page 3

B Al P H I L oF a WEEK 2022 Sain

Training & Development Week

### Theme FY 2021-2022:

BAIPHIL@80: Building Resilience Through Strong Governance O7-12 March 2022 ### ACTIVITIES / WEBINARS SPEAKERS DATE/TIME Solving Problems in the Mr. Joselito G. Nera March 7, 2022 (Monday)

Workplace: Creative Problem Managing Director 8:30 AM — 5:30 PM Solving and Decision Making Shine JGNera Training

(via Zoom) Consultants

BAIPHIL General Membership Mr. Jay M. Dizon March 8, 2022 (Tuesday) Meeting & Executive Learning Director, Payments and 1:00 PM — 3:00 PM Series Settlements Office,

(via Zoom) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Topic: Mr. Dennis O Valdes

Digitalization in Rural Banking President, Cebuana Lhuillier Strategies for Financial Inclusion I Bank, A Rural Bank

in the midst of the Pandemic and Beyond Atty. Albert I. Concha Jr. President, Rural Bankers Association of the Philippines President, The Rural Bank of Rizal (Z.N.), Inc.

Ms. Milott B. Requillo

Executive Director, Rural Bankers Associations of the Philippines Senior Assitant Vice President, BDO Netword Bank, Inc.

Representative from SAP Philippines

## Page 4

Basic Leadership and Effective Supervision Seminar (BLESS) (via Zoom)

Ms. Odette Abaya-de Guia Training Consultant

March 8 - 9, 2022 (Tuesday-Wednesday) ### 1:00 PM — 5:00 PM

Designing Digital Customer Experience (via Zoom)

Mr. Ricson Que

President and Chief Executive Officer SQrity Consulting

Vice President for Education & Research, Cloud Security Alliance — Philippine Chapter

March 9 -10, 2022 (Wednesday — Thursday) ### 8:30 AM — 12:00 NN

Accounting for Non- Accountants with Financial Statement Analysis

(via Zoom)

Mr. Stephen I. Bafares, CPA Training Consultant

March 10-11, 2022 (Thursday — Friday) ### 9:00 AM — 4:00 PM

AML/CFT/CPF (BSP Cir. No. 1022) For Directors & Senior Management

(via Zoom)

### Speakers from:

Financial System Integrity Department, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

March 11, 2022 (Friday) ### 9:00 AM — 12:00 NN

### cordially invites you to the Online Seminar on:

### Solving Problems in the Workplace: Creative Problem Solving and Decision Making

via ZOOM

Mr. Joselito G. Nera rom Managing Director ### SS

### BANKERS INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES, INC.

Shine JGNera Training Consultants

siete March 7, 2022 (Monday) 8:30 am - 5:30 pm

REGISTER NOW ONLINE thru GLUE UP

### For inquiries please contact us at: cell no. 0919-009-4761 email add: mtgarcia@baiphil.org/training@baiphil.org

## Page 5

BANKERS INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES, INC. in partnership with SAP PHILIPPINES cordially invites you to the

General Membership Meeting & Executive Learning Series (ONLINE via ZOOM)

featuring

### DIGITALIZATION IN RURAL BANKING STRATEGIES ### FOR FINANCIAL INCLUSION IN THE MIDST ### OF THE PANDEMIC AND BEYOND

08 March 2022, Tuesday, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM

### REGISTER ONLINE

to those who have attended 3 monthly GMM/ELS

Bankers Institute of the Philippines, Inc.

### BASIC LEADERSHIP AND ### EFFECTIVE SUPERVISION SEMINAR

### (BLESS PROGRAM) FOR BANK SUPERVISORS vie ZOOM

08-09 March 2022, Tuesday-Wednesday, 1:00PM - 5:00 PM

REGISTER NOW ONLINE thru GLUE UP

## Page 6

### BANKERS INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES, INC.

1941 Cordially invites you to the Online Seminar on

### DESIGNING DIGITAL ### CUSTOMER. EXPERIENCE

### BAIPHIL

via

### Schedule: 09-10 March 2022 (Wednesday-Thursday) ### 08:30 AM - 12:00 NN

### U Resource Speaker ### (S) MR. RICSON QUE President & Chief Executive Officer SQrity Consulting Vice President for Education & Research

Cloud Secutity Alliance - Philippine Chapter

REGISTER NOW ONLINE thru GLUE UP

For inquiries please contact us at: cell no. 0919-009-4761 email add: mtgarcia @ baiphil.org/training @ baiphil.org

BAIPHIL cordially invites you ### to the Online Seminar on:

2 Accounting for

= Non-Accountants BAIPHIL with

Financial Statement Analysis

BANKERS INSTITUTE via ### OF THE PHILIPPINES, INC.

### Resource Speaker:

### MR. STEPHEN I. BANARES, CPA Training Consultant

REGISTER NOW ONLINE thru GLUE UP For inquiries 10-1] March 2022 ema ecnte con Thursday-Friday (9:00am - 4:00pm) email add: mtgarcia@baiphil.org/training@baiphil.org

## Page 7

### BANKERS INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES, INC.

### cordially invites you to the Online Seminar on:

### AML/CFT/CPF (BSP Cir. No. 1022)

for Directors & Senior Management via ZOOM ### Speaker/s from:

Financial System Integrity Department Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

REGISTER NOW ONLINE thru GLUE UP

For inquiries please contact us at: cell no. O919-009-4761 email add: mtgarcia@baiphil.org/training@baiphil.org 