### # CL-2023-039

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-039

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution No. TF-67, Series of 2023

This is to disseminate the AMLC Resolution No. TF-67' dated 30 June 2023 (copy attached), on the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) to take effect immediately against certain designated individuals, pursuant to their designation as terrorists under the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 41 (2023) dated 7 June 2023, and directed the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts owned or controlled by the designated persons: (a) property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat; (b) property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; (c) property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and (d) property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation.

BSFls are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return, pursuant to, and containing the details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) Suspicious Transaction Report on all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from the effectivity of the SFO.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individuals designated under ATC Resolution No. 41 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individuals, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

Copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-67 may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website (www.amlc.gov.ph).

For information and strict compliance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2023.07.17 18:40:24 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

17 July 2023

Att: a/s

‘nttp://www.amic.gov.ph/images/PDFs/Main/Notice%200f%20TF%2067%20re%2Z20ATC%20Resolution%204 1%20(2023)%20For%20Publication.pdf

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines ### AML@ ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL ee ### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF-67, SERIES OF 2023

The public, covered institutions as defined under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-67, Series of 2023, embodying ### a Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the following:

1. Sarah Abellon Alikes a.k.a. Sara Abellon/Sara Alikes/Tina/Kaylie/Kylie; 2. Jennifer R. Awingan/Jennifer A Taggaoa a.k.a. Klara/Leni/Aw;

3. Windel Balag-ey Bolinget a.k.a. Tunged;

4. Stephen Ambucay Tauli a.k.a. Steve/Amber/Husto/Teban;

5. Jovencio Sannadan Tangbawan a.k.a. Jonas/Dexter; and

6. May Rodriguez Vargas-Casilao a.k.a. Gab/Yam/Mic-mic.

pursuant to their designation as terrorists by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) by virtue of ATC Resolution No. 41 (2023) dated 7 June 2023, and directed freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts owned or controlled by the ### abovementioned designated terrorists:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amic.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 3

### AML , aa d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and ### instrumentalities who:

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individuals designated under Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 41 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individuals,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered institutions are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Reports of all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from effectivity of the Sanctions Freeze Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds, including related accounts, are frozen are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF- 67, Series of 2023 and ATC Resolution No. 41 (2023) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

30 June 2023, Manila.

Original Signed ### MATTHEW M. DAVID Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2 