### # CL-2023-009

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023- 009

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution Nos. TF-63 and TF-64, Series of 2023

This is to disseminate the AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-63' and TF-647, both dated 25 January 2023 (copies attached), directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) to take effect immediately against certain designated individuals and organization, pursuant to their designation as terrorists under the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution Nos. 35 and 36, and the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts: (a) property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat; (b) property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; (c) property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and (d) property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation.

BSFls are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return, pursuant to, and containing the details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) Suspicious Transaction Report on all previous transactions of the subject of designations within five (5) days from the effectivity of the SFO.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the designated individuals or organization, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals or organization; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individuals or organization, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

Copies of the AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-63 and TF-64 may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: ww.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and strict compliance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2023.02.03 14:36:12 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

_03 February 2023

1 http://www.amlc.gov.ph/images/PDFs/PR2023/Notice%200f%20AMLC%20Reso%20ReE%20ATC%2035. pdf; 2. http://www.amlc.gov.ph/images/PDFs/PR2023/Notice%200f%20AMLC%20Reso%20Re%20ATC%2036.pdf

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines ### AMLC ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL —_— ### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF- 63, SERIES OF 2023

The public, covered institutions as defined under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism- related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued resolution No. TF- 63, Series of 2023, directing the issuance of Sanctions ### Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the following:

1. Maria Natividad Marian Silva Castro @Doc Naty/Doc Nati/Naty/Nati/Yam/Agi/Kyle/ Prim/Milo

pursuant to her designation as terrorist by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 35 (2022) dated 7 December 2022, and the freezing without delay of the following property ### or funds, including related accounts:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and instrumentalities who

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 3

### AML

rr owned or controlled by the individual designated under Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 35 (2022), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individual; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individual shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered persons are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated person within five (5) days from effectivity of this Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF- 63, Series of 2023 and ATC Resolution No. 35 (2022) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

25 January, Manila.

Original Signed ### MATTHEW M. DAVID Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2

## Page 4

Republic of the Philippines ### AMLC ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL —_— ### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF- 64, SERIES OF 2023

The public, covered institutions as defined under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism- related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued resolution No. TF- 64, Series of 2023, directing the issuance of Sanctions ### Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the following:

1. Al Khobar also known as (a.k.a.) Al-Khobar Group/ Al Khobar-Salahuddin Hassan Group/Al Khobar-Daulah Islamiyah (Dl)-Salahuddin Hassan Group/Al-Khobar-DI Hassan /Al Khobar/ Alkhobar/ Alkobar/ Alquobar

pursuant to its designation as a terrorist organization, association, or group of persons by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 36 (2022) dated 7 December 2022, and ### the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and ### instrumentalities who:

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 5

### AML

rr owned or controlled by the organization, association, or group of persons designated under Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 36 (2022), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated organization; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated organization shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered persons are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from effectivity of this Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF- 64, Series of 2023 and ATC Resolution No. 36 (2022) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

25 January, Manila.

Original Signed ### MATTHEW M. DAVID Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2 