### # CL-2022-051

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022- 05]

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Savings Consciousness Week

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 380 series of 1994 (copy attached for reference), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote Savings Consciousness Week 2022, which will run from June 30 to July 6, 2022. This year’s theme is Moneygurado! Mag-impok sa bangko para asenso ay sigurado.

in this regard, we request your support in incorporating (1) the above- cited theme; (2) the phrase “Savings Consciousness Week, June 30 to July 6, 2022”; and (3) the hashtag #SCWeek2022 in your promotional materials and advertisements via websites, social media pages, ATM screen displays, and other channels throughout the weeklong celebration.

The prescribed art card for this campaign is also attached. The high- resolution electronic copy of the art card may be downloaded from the BSP website.

For more information, please contact the BSP Communication Office via

email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph. - ### EDUARDO BIER Officer-in-Charge

x June 2022

## Page 2

### MALACANANG ### MANILA

### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### MEN 1023

### PROCLAMATION NO. 380

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM JUNE 30 TO JULY 6, 1994 AND EVERY ### YEAR THEREAFTER AS SAVINGS CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK

WHEREAS, Philippines 2000, the Filipino peoples vision of deve- lopment by the year 2000 recognizes that the purpose of hastening capital formation through non-inflationary means, particularly through savings with banks and other financial intermediaries, is that of accelerating the country's economic progress and development; and

WHEREAS, the drive towards the country's reaching an industria- lized status by year 2000 can be achieved only if all sectors of society fully realize, and have a continuing awareness of the vital role of savings in the development process;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, FIDEL V. RAMOS, President of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby declare the period June 30 to July 6 of this year, and every year there- after, Savings Consciousness Week, and hereby direct the Department of Finance, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas and the Department of Education, Culture and Sports to undertake such measures as may be necessary to ensure successful observance thereof, and enjoin all sectors of our society and all levels of the government -- national, provincial, city and barangay ~-- to extend their cooperation to this national effort.

This Proclamaltion supersedes Proclamation No. 1868 dated June 18, 1979.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I! have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed.

Done in the City of Manila, this I day of May in the year of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and ninety-four.

2s NPA’ By the President: 2mS IBRARY.

CC, Received TEOFISTO/T. INGONA, JR. MAY 1.9 1984 j~

Executive Secretary Date

### TL

### PMS LIBRARY BCODEO007529

## Page 3

### BANGKO SENTRAI ### NG PILIPINAS

Ui

### M~ NEYGURADO

Mag-impok sa bangko para asenso ay sigurado

### SAVINGS CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK 30 June - 6 July 2022

#SCWeek2022

