### # CL-2020-028

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2020-028

To : ALL BANKING INSTITUTIONS

Subject: Savings Consciousness Week 2020

Pursuant to Proclamation No. 380 dated 15 May 1994 (copy attached) designating June 30 to July 6 as Savings Consciousness Week, all banking institutions and their branches are enjoined to undertake during the period promotional and publicity-generating activities such as advertising, window and counter displays, streamers, distribution of give-aways, raffles, and similar incentives and devices consistent with existing minimum health standards and social distancing protocols.

We enjoin the banking industry to continuously encourage the public to save in banking institutions and further raise awareness on the vital role of savings in the country’s economic development.

To unify the campaign for our celebration of Savings Consciousness Week 2020, banks are requested to incorporate the theme, "Sa panahon ng kagipitan, bunga ng pag-iipon ay maaasahan” and the phrase "Savings Consciousness Week, June 30-July 6, 2020" in their promotional materials and print advertisements during the period. In particular, we encourage the banking community to post the theme slogan in their respective websites and/or social media pages.

For more information, banks may contact the BSP Communication Office by

email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

CoG ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

‘? June 2020

Att.: A/S

## Page 2

: MANTLA MPa) 23 «BY THE PRESIDENT oF THE PHILIPPINES — ### PROCLAMATION NO. 389

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM JUNE 39 TO JULY 6, 1998-AND EVERY YEAR THEREAFTER AS SAVINGS CONSCIOUSKESS weex

- the S$ reaching an industrie- realm, end ava care, Sctlrved only Vat mae, oy st soviet: nd have & continuing the vital role of 