### # CL-2023-014

## Page 1

at?

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-014

To : All Banks

Subject : BAIPHIL Training and Development Week

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 1248 dated O06 March 2007 (copy attached), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote and support the programs and activities of the Bankers Institute of the Philippines, Inc. (BAIPHIL) in celebration of the BAIPHIL Training and Development Week on 6 to 11 March 2023.

The event, which includes learning sessions and activities during the whole week, including the 32nd BAIPHIL Convention, will carry the theme “Innovate! Train! Certify! BAIPHIL to Bring Out the Best in Banking”.

The BAIPHIL has evolved into a recognized institute that supports good governance and strong risk management in banks. It has served as a key partner of the BSP in upholding professionalism in the banking industry through the conduct of a wide-range of capacity-building programs on leadership, management and specialized risk areas. Over the years, the BAIPHIL has contributed to the development of a competitive workforce capable of leading strong banking institutions that contribute to financial system stability.

fn balm

### FELIPE M. MEDALLA Governor

44 February 2023

## Page 2

Manila

### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PROCLAMATION NO, 1248

### DECLARING THE SECOND WEEK OF MARCH OF EVERY YEAR AS “BANKERS

### INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES (BAIPHIL) TRAINING AND ### DEVELOPMENT WEEK”

WHEREAS, the Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL) was organized in

1941 with the mission of providing support to banks towards productivity enhancement through research, information exchange and education;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL is widely acknowledged as a leading tra:ning institute ~- the training provider of choice not only for sanking related-seminars but more significantly for corporate governance courses as well;

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, comprises the senior executives of its more than 60 institutional members and is a member of tne Asian Pacific Association of Banking Institutes (APABI); ‘

WHEREAS, the BAIPHIL, has played a critical role in the development anc advancemert of tne Philipome banking industry in the last sixty five years that Rk has been in existence;

WHEREAS, it is imperative that the tradition of excellence in waining and development that the BAIPHIL has nurtures and inculcated among its members be institutionalized, preserves and be further propagated.

NOW, THEREFORE, 1, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby declare the second week of March of every year as “Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL)Training and Development Week”.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed.

Done in the City of Manila, this 6th day of March-_ in the year of Our Lord,

Two Thousand and Seven.

¥ , —

### EDUARDO R. ERMITA ### JED ¥ ~

Pref et ne Cate". VG. ercgar 39167

