### # CL-2023-034

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM ### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-034

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Savings Consciousness Week 2023

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 380, series of 1994,’ the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote Savings Consciousness ### Week 2023 that will run from 30 June to 6 July 2023 with the following slogan:

English: Save today for a better and prosperous tomorrow Filipino: Mag-impok at mamuhunan para sa magandang kinabukasan

In this regard, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) encourages banks to incorporate the following elements in communication materials through their respective websites, social media pages, automated teller machine screen ### displays, and other channels throughout said week:

1. Event slogan; 2. The line “Savings Consciousness Week, 30 June to 6 July 2023;” and 3. Hashtags #SCWeek2023 and #FinancialSecurity.

A high-resolution copy of the prescribed art card? for this campaign may be downloaded from the BSP website.

For more information, please contact the BSP Communication Office via

e-mail at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

Fil Nt ### FELIPE M. MEDALLA Governor

JA_June 2023

' Annex A (Presidential Proclamation No. 380, signed 15 May 1994) ? Annex B (Prescribed Art Card)

## Page 2

### MALACANANG ### MANILA

### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### MEN (023

### PROCLAMATION NO. 380

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM JUNE 30 TO JULY 6, 1994 AND EVERY ### YEAR THEREAFTER AS SAVINGS CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK

WHEREAS, Philippines 2000, the Filipino peoples vision of deve- lopment by the year 2000 recognizes that the purpose of hastening capital formation through non-inflationary means, particularly through savings with banks and other financial intermediaries, is that of accelerating the country's economic progress and development; and

WHEREAS, the drive towards the country’s reaching an industria- lized status by year 2000 can be achieved only if all sectors of society fully realize, and have a continuing awareness of the vital role of savings in the development process;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, FIDEL V. RAMOS, President of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby declare the period June 30 to July 6 of this year, and every year there- after, Savings Consciousness Week, and hereby direct the Department of Finance, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas and the Department of Education, Culture and Sports to undertake such measures as may be necessary to ensure successful observance thereof, and enjoin all sectors of our society and all levels of the government -- national, provincial, city and barangay ~~ to extend their cooperation to this national effort.

This Proclamaltion supersedes Proclamation No. 1868 dated June 18, 1979,

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I! have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed.

Done in the City of Manila, this I day of May in the year of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and ninety-four.

### 2. APA By the President: “MS IBRARY.

CC, Received TEOFISTO/T. EBINGONA, JR. MAY 19 1994 form

Executive Secretary Date

### I

### S LIBRARY BCODEO

## Page 3

### SAVINGS CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK 2023 Prescribed Art Cards

English Version

### ‘Y) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Save today for a better and prosperous tomorrow

Savings C i ess Week

W-July 6 202

Filipino Version

Magimpok at mamuhunan para sa magandang kinabukasan

Savings Consciousness Week

Classification: GENERAL 