### # CL-2021-083

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021- 083

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFlIs)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Guidelines on the Submission of the Quarterly DIGICUR Status Report of Compliance (QUADSREC)

This is to disseminate to all BSFls the AMLC Advisory’ relative to the guidelines on the submission of the Quarterly Digitization of Customer Records (DIGICUR) Status Report of Compliance (QUADSREC).

In the AMLC Regulatory Issuance (ARI) No. 6, Series of 20217, the deadline for compliance with the Guidelines on the DIGICUR was extended until 30 September 2022 but covered persons, which include BSP-supervised financial institutions (BSFls), are required to submit to the AMLC a Quarterly DIGICUR Status Report of Compliance (QUADSREC). In this regard, the AMLC issued the following guidelines on the submission ### of the QUADSREC beginning 25 October 2021:

1. Upload the duly accomplished and signed QUADSREC form (Annex A) through the AMLC Portal; and

2. Accomplish the electronic QUADSREC form via the advisory page of the AMLC Portal.

Step-by-step procedures on the uploading of the QUADSREC form and accomplishing the electronic QUADSREC form were provided for guidance. (Annexes B and C).

The AMLC advisory likewise directed all concerned covered persons to cease submitting their respective QUADSREC forms via e-mail and that those covered persons who have previously submitted their QUADSREC forms via e-mail shall be required to re-submit the same through the AMLC Portal starting 25 October 2021.

For information and compliance. Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.11.02 12:09:10 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor _02 November 2021

’www.amic.gov.ph/16-news-and-announcements/325-guidelines-on-the-submission-of-the-quarterly-digicur-status- report-of-compliance-quadsrec?tmpl=component&print=1&page; posted on the AMLC website on 20 October 2021.

'. *http:/Awww.amic.gov.ph/images/PDFs/2021%20SEP%20ARI%20FINAL%20DIGICUR%20EXTENSION%20(ORIGINAL%20

". * SIGNED)2.pdf .

e

I i ae ae a i

## Page 2

Obligations under the ### DIGICUR

### QUARTERLY DIGICUR STATUS REPORT (QUADSREC) Name of the Covered Person

Ongoing Issues

__ Quarter, 202_

% of Completion as of

DIGICUR Completion Measures

### ANNEX A

Target Completion Date (must be on or before

30 September 2022)

Updating of the Money Laundering/Terrorism Financing Prevention Program ### (MTPP)

e Revision of the MTPP to incorporate the requirements under the DIGICUR Approval of the updated MTPP by the Board of Directors/ Senior Management (for partnerships, sole corporations or sole proprietorships)

Development of a central database of customer records

Indicate details and amount of ### investment in the following: e Capital Expenditures; IT equipment; System upgrades; Training; and Other measures.

Digitization of existing customer accounts prior to the effectivity of the DIGICUR

Number of digitized

existing customer accounts prior to the

effectivity of the DIGICUR/total number of existing

Indicate details and amount of ### investment in the following:

e Capital Expenditures;

e IT equipment;

e System upgrades;

## Page 3

customer accounts e Training; and prior to the effectivity I e Other measures. of the DIGICUR = %

### ANNEX A

Digitization of new accounts Number of digitized I \Indicate details and amount of ### opened after the effectivity of new customer investment in the following:

the DIGICUR accounts opened after I e Capital Expenditures;

the effectivity of the IT equipment; DIGICUR/total System upgrades; number of new Training; and customer accounts Other measures. opened after the effectivity of the ### DIGICUR = %

### Certified correct: Attested bv:

Chief Compliance Officer President/CEO

## Page 4

Annex B

Step-by-step procedures of uploading the QUADSREC Form in the QUADSREC upload facility of ### the AMLC Portal:

1. Covered Persons must follow the specific file naming convention for their QUADSREC PDF file.

[Institution code_QUADSREC_Upload Date (YYYYMMDD)}]

### Institution Code:

e For CPs with 11-digit Institution Code, they must enter the 1° 6-digits of their Institution Code

e For CPs with 18-digit Institution Code, they must enter the 1st 9-digits of the Institution Code

### Example: o (123456 QUADSREC_20211031) o (123456789 QUADSREC_20211031)

2. Log-on to https://portal.amlc.gov.ph

* ame ges ms oe eetn oe

eg othe Phil AMLEN dint Money Laundering Council

a, Lau he Philippines’ Financial Intelligence Unit

Welcome to the Anti-Money Laundering Council Portal! (Ver, 2.8.4) SS o*

Ime fecmy atone sverea cersene Coe) te acrameher the tena Tete Cte i I

3. Enter the 1° 6-digits of the Inst. Code for CPs with 11-digit Inst. Code or the 1st 9-digits of the Inst. Code for CPs with 18-digit Inst. Code

4. Enter the Username or Registered email address

Enter password

6. Click LOGIN

Wi

Institution Code: ] Username/Email: “- ]

Password: 3 J

### FORGOT PASSWORD

Note: CPs with 1 1-digit Inst. Code - :« CPs with 18-digt Inst. Code 2s

### BESISTER ### Registration Stetus? CUlck HERE:

## Page 5

Annex B A successful log-in will show the Covered Persons’ User Main Page.

7. Kindly click on QUADSREC Upload Facility

8. Select QUADSREC as Document Type

## Page 6

Annex B

### 9. Enter the Mandatory Information: (AMLC Regulatory Issuance no.: 6, Year: 2021)

10. Click the “choose file” button and upload the signed QUADSREC PDF file, then click the “Upload” button.

11. A Confirmation Receipt will be generated after uploading QUADSREC.

## Page 7

Annex C

Step-by-step procedures in accomplishing the Electronic QUADSREC Form in the Advisory Page ### in the AMLC Portal:

1. Log-on to https://portal.amlc.gov.ph

a

arom Loamntori Council = Paitingtog I Financial nile Doesedog Unit

Welcome to the Anti-Money sas Council Portal! (Ver. 2.8.4)

To lente ate Contest Rarene Be Ae erent ot Fog

TRIES SOS TA omnes ne vogseee ane acters acesoning cecureats tueraen of nerdese senmens se ne ‘oneer soured

viaronlaarae = SESS ROSSI Fy ERAT Soe VPN Oa OO *epplttriaet i pectic’ vee

OMegattiorr sitstoaged ariecemete ee

2. Enter the 1° 6-digits of the Inst. Code for CPs with 11-digit Inst. Code or the 1st 9-digits of the Inst. Code for CPs with 18-digit Inst. Code

3. Enter the Username or Registered email address

Enter password

5. Click LOGIN

>

Institutronm Code: ———s Username/Email: [ ] Pessword: [ ]

### FORGOT SASSWORD

Mote: — with £i-digtt lost. Code - ist 6 digrt= with £2-digt Ivet. Code - & a ### BESISTER Registretion Stetus? Ciice Herme-r

CTR/STR File Upload — CTR/STR File Upload History

KYC Docs ‘FOR STR ONLY E ae << Retums Upioas and ESO4 Uoioad C Documents Request

QUADSREC Upioac Bectrome Returns Temolate

STR Arachment Upload ‘STR Artech ment Hestory

## Page 8

Annex C

7. Click on the advisory entitled “Electronic QUADSREC Form”

ome id I r 2S Oct 2021 - apyisoRY

8. Click on the “Electronic QUADSREC Form” Hyperlink

Electronic QUADSREC Form

The Electronic QUADSREC Form should be accomplished together with the uploading of the QUADSREC Form (signed PDF file) through the upload facility in the AMLC portal in compliance with the AMLC Regulatory Issuance no. 06, series of 2021.

Please click the link: Electronic QUADSREC Form om

