### # CL-2021-101

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021- 101

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR To : ALL BANKING INSTITUTIONS Subject : National Banking Week 2022

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 2250 dated 10 December 1982 (Annex A) designating the first seven days of January of every year as the National Banking Week, all banking institutions and their branches are enjoined to conduct activities or initiatives that vigorously promote the benefits of banking on 1-7 January 2022, subject to minimum health standards and social distancing protocols.

It is imperative to convey the important role that banking plays in the lives of Filipinos, the economy, and the country—especially amid the ongoing fight against the COVID-19 pandemic—to maximize the potentials of banking in fueling economic recovery and growth.

In promoting the National Banking Week 2022, banks are encouraged to incorporate the following in the promotional materials and advertisements—including but not limited to websites and/or social media pages/ digital platforms, and ATM screen displays—throughout the weeklong celebration: (i) the theme, “E-banking: driving innovation in the New Economy” /“E-banking: puwersang magsusulong ng inobasyon sa Bagong Ekonomiya”. (ii) the phrase "National Banking Week, 01 to 07 January, 2022"; and (iii) the hashtag #eBankTayo. The theme is meant to promote financial digitalization, which helps accelerate financial inclusion and economic growth.

For more information, banks may contact the BSP’s Communication Office by email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

cg EG ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

0+ December 2021

Att.: A/S

## Page 2

BY THE PRESDDENT oF TARE VHT LFPENES

ise Uh THE FIRST FULT WEEK OF J. NUARY EACH YEAR

: She a Sere s p+ eee, t* § : eh te vset *

es Pine te Hirvonen ta?

WT . the hankine commmite., in erder to contribute Its utmost in Wie aur ‘othe gation, must fave the viscous support of and develop ow lmaitiy partnership with our peaple; *

WHEAGAS, the dendred objective of aeccle iting the country's econo- Hic urostoe: . paivticularty through (loanedal £ tertiedfLution, cannot he attadned mist! all aogtora of saefety fully re. lize and have a continuing awareness of the vital role of banking In the : agional development process;

NOW, THEPEPURE, 2, FERDINAND E. MARCOS, I resident of the Phiiippines, ty virtue of tin powers vested in me by law, d hereby declare the First full yeehk af January each year beginning in 19.3, as National Banking Werk atid liereby ddreet the Central Bank of the Shilippines to undertake H)) such peaceures ag may be neceskary to ensur. the successful observance thoreel and eujetn all sectors of our soctety .ad all levels of the govern- BOWE LO eatend their cooperation.

EN WLITHESS WHEREOF, 1 have beréunte ser i+ hand aud cause! the seal of the Repulbife of the Philippines to be affix J.

Poue Jn the Clty ef Manila, this 16th da of December, in the year ef Qur Lord, nineteen hundred and cichty-twe,

-.*¢ vs 7 ee PS Bay Lite sees eo 4 ae #7 - + a - ———e

### By the Fresidont:

ane oe

geet ci

### M4 hel he :

## Page 3

### PLEASE REFER TO THE DOWNLOADABLE TEMPLATE OF THIS POSTER FOR BETTER RESOLUTION.

### NATIONAL BANKING WEEK

### E-BANKING:

#eBankTayo

