### # CL-2023-025

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-025

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Credit Consciousness Week 2023

The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote the Credit Consciousness Week 2023 pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 568, series of 1995 (Annex A).

The upcoming Credit Consciousness Week, which will run from 24 to 30 April 2023, will carry the slogan ‘Breaking barriers: Accelerating economic growth through financial inclusion, greater credit access’/Inklusibong pananalapi at pautang tungo sa mas maunlad na bayan.”

In this regard, the BSP encourages banks to incorporate the following elements in communication materials published through their websites, social media pages, automated teller machine screen displays, and other channels ### throughout the weeklong celebration:

1. The event slogan; 2. The line “Credit Consciousness Week, April 24 to 30, 2023”; and 3. The hashtags #CCWeek2023 and #Financiallnclusion.

Attached is the prescribed art card for this campaign (Annex B). The high- resolution copy may be downloaded from the BSP website.

For more information, please contact the BSP Communication Office via

email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

### CHUCHIG. FONACIER fficer-in-Charge

18 April 2023

## Page 2

Manila ### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PROCLAMATION NO. 568

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM APRIL 24 TO 30 OF EVERY YEAR AS ### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK .

WHEREAS, PHILIPPINES 2000, the Filipino vision of sound development by the year 2000, recognizes the need for accelerated industrial and agricultural development by gene- rating financial resources through effective financial intermediation and sound lending operations in aid of capital formation; )

WHEREAS, the drive towards the attainment of the status of a Newly Industrialized Country by -the turn of the century will be effectively boosted if all sectors of --society. are made fully aware of. the vital role that. capital _Lormation and responsible credit: play_ in “the country s economic . deve- lopment ;

WHEREAS, to effectively impart this awareness, it..is imperative to institute a continuing campaign that will -in- volve all sectors of society, as well as all levels and instrumentalities. of the government; a

NOW, THEREFORE, I, FIDEL V.RAMOS, Presiderit ‘of. : - the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in.me by law, : ‘do hereby declare the period from April 24 to 30 of every year, as “CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK".

For this purpose, the Secretary of Finance, Secretary of Education, Culture and Sport, Secretary of the Interior and Local Government, Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority, the Governor of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, as well as all heads of Depart- ments, Bureaus, Offices, Agencies, and Instrumentalities of the Government, Local Government Units of all levels, and Government-owned. or. Controlled Corporations are hereby directed to undertake activities in accordance with the spirit of. this Proclamation.

The Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Chamber of Thrift Banks, the Rural Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Financial Executives Institute of the Philippines, and all members of the mass media, civic and commercial associatiotis...and non-governmental organizations are hereby.. ‘y@queated to extend their full support and cooperation in this campaign. ;

## Page 3

Credit Consciousness Week April 24 to 30 of every year

x7 - > 5 x

2

Supersedes Proclamation No. 1837, dated March 30, 1979 , °

'N OWIENFSS GHERFOR, f hace hereunta seb MS bad carat woatiseed on ye bead of the Repubbas of thee Phildppines 2.0, 0 be

aff Ped

ene an the ity of Mantla, this 25th day of Apr in the vear of One Lord, ranmetesen duandred and ninety five,

—_—_—

### PMS LIBRARY

Received

Date

### WI MU ET

### PMS LIRRARY BCODE007823

## Page 4

### DOWNLOADABLE TEMPLATE OF THIS POSTER IN VARIOUS SIZES AND BETTER RESOLUTION CAN BE ### FOUND IN THE BSP WEBSITE.

### (~) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### Breaking barriers: accelerating economic growth through financial inclusion, greater credit access.

re) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Inklusibong pananalapi at pautang tungo sa mas maunlad na bayan.

