### # CL-2022-085

## Page 1

### “4 BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM ### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-085

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : National Banking Week 2023

The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote the National Banking Week 2023 pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 2250 series of 1982 (Annex A).

The upcoming National Banking Week will carry the theme ‘Cybersecurity: Secure Your Savings, Protect Your Future” and will run from 1 to 7 January 2023.

In this regard, the BSP encourages banks to incorporate the following elements in communication materials published through your websites, social media pages, automated teller machine screen displays, and other channels ### throughout the weeklong celebration:

1. The event theme; 2. The line “National Banking Week, January 1 - 7, 2022”; and 3. The hashtags #NBWeek2023 and #BSPSecuritips.

The prescribed art card for this campaign is attached (Annex B) and the high-resolution electronic copy may be downloaded from the BSP website.

For more information, please contact the BSP Communication Office via

email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

Tale KW

### FELIPE M. MEDALLA Governor

23 December 2022

## Page 2

### ANNEXA

### $Y THE PRESIDENT OF 'TAE PHI LPPINES

PROCLAMATION NO. a25¢

### VLCLARING THE FIRST FULL WEEK OF J. ### AS NATIONAL BANKING WE

WHEREAS. che banking community, in order in the serefes of the nation, must have the vi

develop o hwalthy partnership with our

people;

WHEREAS, the desired objective of aacele wie prosress, particularly through flaanefal t attutued wnitit all sectors of society fully re.

awarenes4# ot the vital rale of banking

### NOW, THEREFORE, 1, FERDINAND E. MARCOS,

### in che :

by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, di full yeek of January each year beginning in 19. Work and hereby direct the Central Bank of the

&]1 such measures as may be necessary

### to ensur:

thereof and enjoin all sectors of our soctety .

- went to extend their cooperation.

; IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set I of the Republic of the Philippines to be affix

Done tu the Clty ef Manila, this of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and ecigh

‘

### 10th da: ty-two.

### Q

a i > 3

### NUARY EACH YEAR

.

»

to contribute its utmost orous support of and

iting the country's econo- termediation, cannot he

lize and have a continuing agional development process;

iresident of the PhMippines,

hereby declare the first

3, as National Banking Philippines to undertake

the successful observance ad all levels of the govern-

+ hand and caused che seal a

of December, in the year

a

¥

Wy £

## Page 3

### ANNEX B

Please refer to the downloadable templates of this art card for better resolution.

### NATIONAL BANKING WEEK 1-7 January 2023

### CYBERSECURITY:

Secure your savings, protect your future

#NBWeek2023 #8SPSecuritips 1234 5678 1234 5678 =—_

Classification: GENERAL 