### # CL-2022-026

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-026

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Publications on High-Risk and Other Monitored Jurisdictions - March 2022

This is to inform all BSFls of the updated statements of the FATF issued on 04 March 2022' on high-risk jurisdictions subject to a call for action? and jurisdictions ### under increased monitoring?:

1. High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action - BSFlIs should refer to the FATF statement on these jurisdictions adopted on 21 February 2020* which was previously disseminated by the BSP thru Circular Letter Nos. CL-2020-026, CL- 2021-021, and CL-2021-058. While the statement may not necessarily reflect the most recent status of Iran and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s AML/CFT regimes, the FATF’s call for action on these high-risk jurisdictions remains in effect.

a. On Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) - The FATF reaffirms its 25 February 2011 call on its members and urges all jurisdictions to advise their financial institutions (Fls) in their respective jurisdictions to give special attention to business relationships and transactions, directly or indirectly, with the DPRK, including DPRK companies, Fls, and those acting on their behalf. In addition to enhanced scrutiny of these business relationships and transactions, the FATF urges all jurisdictions to apply effective countermeasures and targeted financial sanctions (TFS) in accordance with applicable United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolutions. BSFls are likewise directed to terminate correspondent relationships with DPRK banks, where required by relevant UNSC Resolutions.

b. On Iran - The FATF fully lifts the suspension of counter-measures and calls on its members and urges all jurisdictions to apply effective countermeasures against Iran. In determining the range of countermeasures that could be undertaken, BSFls shall consider Iran as a high-risk jurisdiction and apply enhanced due diligence (EDD) procedures as well as appropriate countermeasures that are effective and proportionate to the risk. BSFls are likewise directed to, among others,

'https:/Awww.fatf-gafi.org/publications/high-risk-and-other-monitored-jurisdictions/documents/call-for-action- march-2022.html and https:/Awww.fatf-gafi.org/publications/high-risk-and-other-monitored- jurisdictions/documents/increased-monitoring-march-2022.html 2 Previously called “Public Statement”; often externally referred to as the “black list”

3 Previously called ‘mproving Global AML/CFT Compliance: On-going process’ often externally referred as the - “grey list”

- ° _ -4 http://www. fatf-gafi.org/publications/high-risk-and-other-monitored-jurisdictions/documents/call-for-action- “+” february-2020:html

Page 1 of 2

## Page 2

effectively implement TFS in accordance with applicable UNSC Resolutions and take necessary risk mitigation strategies, considering relevant laws and BSP rules and regulations.

In addition, BSFIls should take necessary actions (such as immediate freezing and filing of returns) required under relevant issuances? on TFS in case of funds or property, including related accounts, of the designated individuals and entities referred to in all applicable UNSC and AMLC Resolutions.

Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring - The FATF has issued an updated list of jurisdictions under increased monitoring or with strategic deficiencies®. These countries are actively working with the FATF and have committed to resolve swiftly the identified strategic deficiencies in their regimes to counter money laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation financing within agreed timelines and are subject to increased monitoring.

The FATF does not call for the application of EDD measures to be applied to these jurisdictions but encourages its members and all jurisdictions to take into account the information presented in their risk analysis.

Copies of the aforementioned FATF statements may be viewed and

downloaded from the FATF website. BSFls are likewise directed to regularly refer to the FATF’s website for the latest statements on high risk and other monitored jurisdictions and consider the same in their risk analysis and mitigation strategies.

For guidance and strict compliance.

Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.03.15 17:50:25 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

15 March 2022

5 Such as AMLC 2021 Sanctions Guidelines issued on 03 March 2021 and other issuances to implement the TFS against individuals and entities listed in the UNSC Consolidated List and those designated by the ATC.

6 Albania, Barbados, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cayman Islands, Haiti, Jamaica, Jordan, Mali, Malta, Morocco, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, Senegal, South Sudan, Syria, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen; Zimbabwe is no longer subject to the FATF’s increased monitoring process.

Page 2 of 2 