### # CL-2022-071

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-071

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Updates on the United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 1970 (2011) Libya Sanctions List

This refers to the latest updates to the entries in the UNSCR 1970 (2011) or the Libya Sanctions List which have been posted in the UNSC website! (copy attached).

BSP has issued Circular Letter No. CL-2018-040 dated 23 May 20187 disseminating previous update to the UNSCR 1970 (2011) Libya Sanctions List of individuals and entities subject to assets freeze, travel ban, and others measures, and providing the link to the updated UNSC Sanctions List.

BSFls are advised that they may consider other UNSC Resolutions and unilateral sanctions lists (e.g., Office of Foreign Assets Control of the US Department of the Treasury and European Union) as part of their sanctions risk management based on the applicable laws, implementing regulations, and results of their sanctions risk assessment, for purposes of risk management and suspicious transaction reporting

### (STR). For guidance and information. Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.10.24 15:27:46 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor 24 October 2022

## Page 2

United Nations @) Nations Unies

### HEADQUARTERS I SIEGE I NEW YORK, NY 10017 ### TEL.: + 212 963 4574 I SC-1970-COMMITTEE@UN.ORG

rererence: SCA/13/22 (4)

The Chair of the Security Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 1970 (2011) presents compliments to the Permanent Representatives and Observers to the United ### Nations and wishes to convey the following:

On 18/07/2022, the Committee enacted the amendments specified with strikethrough and/or underline in the entry below on its Sanctions List of individuals and entities.

A. Individuals

LYi.006 Name: I: ABU 2: ZAYD 3: UMAR 4: DORDA Title: na Designation: a) Director, External Security Organisation. b) Head of external intelligence agency. DOB: 4 Apr. 1944 POB: Alrhaybat Good quality a.k.a.: a) Dorda Abuzed ### OE b) Abu Zayd Umar Hmeid Dorda Low quality a.k.a.: na Nationality: na Passport no: Libya number FK117RKO, issued on 25 Nov. 2018, issued in Tripoli (Date of expiration: 24 ### Nov 2026) National identification no: na Address: Libya (Believed status/location:

Listed on: 26 Feb. 2011 ( amended on 27 Jun. 2014, 1 Apr. 2016, 25 Feb. 2020, 18 Jul. 2022 ) Other information: Listed pursuant to paragraph 15 of resolution 1970 (Travel Ban). Listed on 17 March 2011 pursuant to paragraph 17 of resolution 1970 (Asset ### Freeze). INTERPOL-UN Security Council Special Notice web link: https://www. interpol. int/en/How-we-work/Notices/View-UN-Notices-Individuals click here

Press releases concerning changes to the Committee’s Sanctions List may be found in the ### “Press Releases” section on the Committee’ s website at the following URL:

The updated version of the Committee’s Sanctions List, available in HTML, PDF and ### XML format, may be found at the following URL:

https://www.un.org/securitycouncil/sanctions/1970/materials

The United Nations Security Council Consolidated List is also updated following all ### changes made to the Committee’s Sanctions List and is accessible at the following URL:

https://www.un.org/securitycouncil/content/un-sc-consolidated-list 18 July 2022 