### # CL-2021-102

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021-102

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Regulatory Issuance (ARI) No. 7, Series of 2021 - Assessments on Late Submission of Action Plans and/or Updates on Actions Taken on AMLC Directives

This is to disseminate to all BSFls the ARI No. 7, Series of 2021' (copy attached) on the assessments on late submission of action plans and/or updates on actions ### taken on AMLC directives with the following provisions:

1. Action plans and/or updates on actions taken by covered persons (CPs), pursuant to a directive by the AMLC in an AMLC resolution approving the compliance checking reports, shall be submitted within the approved timelines. Delay in the submission shall be subject to an assessment for every day of delay ranging from Php2,500.00 to Php30,000.00 per day.” The assessment shall be counted from the first day of delay until such time that the action plan or updates are submitted to the AMLC, but in no case shall the total assessment exceed Phpl20,000.00% or Php240,000.00* whichever is applicable. The imposition of assessment shall be in accordance with the schedule provided in the ARI.

2. Failure or late submission of action plans and/or updates on actions fora period of one (1) year shall be considered a serious violation under Section 2.A, Table A. C.25 of the Rules of Procedures in Administrative Cases, and carries a penalty ranging from Phpl0,000.00 to Php200,000.00 per violation, but not exceeding PhpS Million. Other enforcement actions may be considered as may be warranted under the circumstances, including revocation of the AMLC registration of the concerned CP, and a negative public advisory.

For information and strict compliance/implementation. Digitally signed by . ChuchiG. Fonacier Date: 2021.12.29 15:36:18 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

29 December 2021

Att: a/s

. 7 ‘nttp://wwww.amle.gov.ph/16-news-and-announcements/341-assessments-on-late-submission-of-action-plans- -ahd-or-updates-on-actions-taken-on-amlc-directives?tmpl=component&print=1&page=; published ina

> newspaper of, genheral-circulatian'on 07 December 2021. - ? Based on the schedule provided in ARI No. 7, Series.of 2021 “2 Rot “Miord”, “Small” and™Mediurn” covered persons *,*For Lange A and-Large B covered persons .

## Page 2

AM Le

### AMLC REGULATORY ISSUANCE (ARI) NO. 7

Series of 2021

Subject: Assessments on late submission of Action Plans and/or updates on Actions Taken on AMLC directives

By the authority vested upon the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) to implement measures as may be necessary and justified to counteract money laundering, in accordance with Section 7(7) of Republic Act (RA) No. 9160, also known as the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2001, as amended (AMLA), the Council in its Resolution No. 241, dated 16 November 2021, approved the Assessments on Late Submission of Action Plans and/or ### Updates on Actions Taken on AMLC Directives with the following provisions:

1) Action plans and/or updates in actions taken by CPs, pursuant to a directive by the AMLC in an AMLC resolution approving the compliance checking reports, shall be submitted within the approved timelines. Delay in the submission of such action plans and/or updates shall be subject to an assessment for every day of delay starting from Php2,500.00 per day of delay based on the schedule below. The assessment shall be counted from the first day of delay until such time that the action plan or updates are submitted to the AMLC, but in no case shall the total assessment exceed Php120,000.00! or Php240,000.002 whichever is applicable. ### The imposition of assessment shall be in accordance with the following schedule:

Assessment Level\Asset Size? High* Low? Up to P200 million 5,000 2,500 Above P200 million but not exceeding P500 million 10,000 5,000

1 For “Micro”, “Small” and “Medium”

For Large A and Large B covered persons.

3 If the covered person is a juridical entity, the penalty level shall be based on the Total Asset size as shown in the Audited Financial Statements of the assessed year. If the covered person is a private individual practitioner, the penalty shall be based on the Net Taxable Income reflected in the latest Income Tax Return filed. In the absence of the said documents, the asset size will be based on any verified available information that would provide the AMLC with a reasonable estimation of the resources of the CP. If no such verified available information is available, the penalty shall be % of 1% or Php 2,500 whichever is higher per day) of the total amount of transactions based on total CTRs/STRs transactions. In the absence of any transaction, the penalty shall be Php 2,500.00 per day of delay.

4 In cases where the CP subject of the AMLC directive has an ARRS rating of “1”. 5 In cases where the CP subject of the AMLC directive has an ARRS rating of “2”.

## Page 3

Assessment Level\Asset Size? High* Low? Above P500 million but not exceeding P11 billion 15,000 7,500 Above P1 billion but not exceeding P10 billion 20,000 10,000 Above 10 billion but not exceeding P50 billion 25,000 12,500 Above P50 billion 30,000 15,000

2) Failure or late submission of action plans and/or updates on actions for a period of one (1) year shall be considered a serious violation under Section 2.A, Table A. C.25 of the RPAC, and carries a penalty ranging from Php10,000.00 to Php200,000.00 per violation, but not exceeding Php5 Million. Other enforcement actions may be considered as may be warranted under the circumstances, including revocation of the AMLC registration of the concerned CP, and a negative public advisory.

This ARI shall take effect following its publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or in the Official Gazette.

### BY AUTHORITY OF THE AMLC: (original signed) ### MA. RHEA M. SANTOS-MENDOZA

Officer-in-Charge Anti-Money Laundering Council Secretariat

17 November 2021 