### # CL-2021-018

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021- 018

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution No. TF-35, Series of 2021

Pursuant to Sections 25 and 36 of the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020 (ATA) and the AMLC’s mandate under Section 11 of the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with the binding terrorism-related resolutions pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations (UN) Charter, the AMLC in its Resolution No. TF- 35, Series of ### 2021, issued the Sanctions Freeze Order and:

1. Directs all covered persons (CPs) and relevant government agencies to freeze without delay any funds and other assets that are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, including funds and assets derived or generated therefrom, by the designated individuals, groups, undertaking, and entities included in the United Nations Consolidated List under United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolutions 1267 (1999), 1989 (2011), 2253 (2015) and 1988 (2011), and all successor Resolutions including those acting on their behalf, appearing in and which were previously covered by AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-01 and TF-02, Series of 2012, and relevant AMLC resolutions; and

### 2. Reminds all CPs and the public that any person who:

a. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or funds that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by a designated person, organization, association, or group of persons, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a designated person, organization, association, or group of persons; or

b. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to a designated person, organization, association, or group of persons,

will be criminally charged for dealing with a designated person or entity under Section 8 of the TFPSA.

BSFls are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and

containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines ¢ (632) 87087701 * www.bsp.gov.ph © bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

AMLC Resolution No. TF-35 dated 21 February 2021! repeals the 2012 AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-01 and TF-02, on the sanctions freeze against the Al Qaeda and Taliban, respectively. Freeze orders against those designated under TF-01 and TF-02 will now be based on the ATA and Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 10 (Designation by Adoption of the United Nations’ Designations under UNSC Resolutions 1267 [1999], 1989 [2011], 2253 [2015] and 1988 [2011], and all their Successor Resolutions).

Copies of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-35, Series of 2021, and ATC Resolution No. ### 10, Series of 2020 may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlic.gov.ph.

For information and strict implementation/compliance.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.03.01

11:04:55 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor Att.: A/S

01 March 2021

published in the 21 February 2021 issue of the Philippine Star, Business page B3.

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

Republic of the Philippines ### AML@ ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL , aa

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF- 35 Series of 2021

Notice is hereby given that the 2012 AMLC Resolutions Nos. TF 01 and TF- 02, sanctions freeze against the Al Qaeda and Taliban respectively, has been effectively repealed and replaced upon the publication of AMLC Resolution No. TF-35 on 21 February 2021.1

Accordingly, the public, covered persons and institutions as defined under Republic Act (RA) No. 10168 or The Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, Department of Trade and Industry, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines, are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), pursuant to Section 25 and 36 of the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply’ with binding _ terrorism-related resolutions, pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued Resolution No. TF- 35, Series of 2021, dated 16 February 2021, directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order, to take effect immediately against the funds and other assets that are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, including funds and assets derived or generated therefrom, by the designated individuals, groups, undertaking, and entities included in the United Nations Consolidated List under UNSCR 1267 (1999), 1989 (2011), 2253 (2015) and 1988 (2011), and all successor Resolutions including those acting in their behalf, appearing in and which were previously covered by AMLC Resolution No. TF-01 and 02 (s. 2012) and relevant AMLC Resolutions.

All the above covered persons and institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons and_ institutions, private companies, government owned or _ controlled

### corporations, and government agencies and instrumentalities who:

a. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is

1 Published in the 21 February 2021 issue of the Philippine Star, Business page B3.

## Page 4

owned or controlled by the persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons designated as terrorists pursuant to ATC Resolution No. 10, Series of 2020, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons; or

b. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons designated as terrorists pursuant to ATC Resolution No. 10, Series of 2020,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts, are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under the TFPSA, its Implementing Rules and Regulations, the Sanctions Guidelines, and ARI No. 2 (s.2021).

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-35, Series of 2022, dated 16 February 2021, and ATC Resolution No. 10, Series of 2020, dated 23 September 2020, may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and immediate compliance. 22 February 2021, Manila.

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA Executive Director

AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2

## Page 5

MLOS Republic of the Philippines

ere ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### RESOLUTION NO. TF- 35 Series of 2021

Subject: Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 10 (s.2020)

Designation by Adoption of the Consolidated Lists under UNSC Resolutions 1267 (1999), 1989 (2011), 2253 (2015) and their Successor Resolutions

Pursuant to Section 25 and 36 of the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020 and its

mandate under Section 11 of the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression ### Act of 2012, the Council resolved to issue this FREEZE ORDER and:

1. DIRECT all covered persons and relevant government agencies to freeze

without delay any funds and other assets that are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, including funds and assets derived or generated therefrom, by the designated individuals, groups, undertaking, and entities included in the United Nations Consolidated List under UNSCR 1267 (1999), 1989 (2011), 2253 (2015) and 1988 (2011), and all successor Resolutions including those acting in their behalf, appearing in and which were previously covered by AMLC Resolution No. TF-01 and 02 (s. 2012) and relevant AMLC Resolutions;

### REMIND all covered persons and the public that any person who:

(i) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or funds that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by a designated person, organization, association or group of persons, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a designated person, organization, association or group of persons; or

(ii) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to a designated person, organization, association or group of persons,

will be criminally charged for dealing with a designated person or entity under Section 8 of the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012;

## Page 6

AMLC Resolution No. TF- 35 Series of 2021

3. DIRECT the AMLC Secretariat to cause the publication of this Resolution in a newspaper of general circulation and posting in the AMLC website; and

4. REPEAL AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-01 and 02 (s. 2012) upon effectivity of this Resolution.

This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its complete publication in accordance with No. 3 above.

### SO ORDERED.

16 February 2021, Manila, Philippines.

### ORIGINAL SIGNED ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Chairman (Governor, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas)

### ORIGINAL SIGNED ORIGINAL SIGNED ### EMILIO B. AQUINO DENNIS B. FUNA Member Member

(Chairperson, Securities and Exchange Commission) (Commissioner, Insurance Commission)

Page 2 of 2 