### # CL-2022-030

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM ### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR ### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-030

To ALL BANKS

Subject : Credit Consciousness Week

Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 568 series of 1995 (copy attached), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) enjoins all banks to promote Credit Consciousness Week, which will run from 24 to 30 April 2022. This year’s theme is Wastong pag-utang, susi sa pagbangon ng bayan.

To unify the campaign for our celebration of Credit Consciousness Week 2022, banks are encouraged to incorporate the (1) above-cited . theme; (2) the phrase “Credit Consciousness Week, 24 to 30 April 2022”; and (3) the hashtag #CCWeek2022 in their promotional materials and advertisements via websites, social media pages, ATM screen displays, and other channels throughout the weeklong celebration.

The prescribed art card for this campaign may be downloaded from the BSP website.

For more information, banks may contact the BSP Communication

Office by email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

e ves ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

_I¢ March 2022

## Page 2

### MALACAN

Manila ### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PROCLAMATION NO. 568

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM APRIL 24 TO 30 OF EVERY YEAR AS ### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK

WHEREAS, PHILIPPINES 2000, the Filipino vision of sound development by the year 2000, recognizes the need for accelerated industrial and agricultural development by gene- rating financial resources through effective financial intermediation and sound lending operations in aid of capital formation; I

WHEREAS, the drive towards the attainment of the status of a Newly Industrialized Country by -the turn of the century will be effectively boosted if all sectors of - society. are made fully aware of the vital role that. capital formation and responsible credit: play in the country! $s economic. deve~- lopment ;

WHEREAS, to effectively impart this awareness, it..is imperative to institute a continuing campaign that will -in- volve all sectors of society, as well as all levels and instrumentalities of the government; — _

NOW, THEREFORE, I, FIDEL V._.RAMOS, President -of. - the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in.me by law,’ ‘do hereby declare the period from April 24 to 30 of every year, as "CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK".

For this purpose, the Secretary of Finance, Secretary of Education, Culture and Sport, Secretary of the Interior and Local Government, Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority, the Governor of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, as well as all heads of Depart- ments, Bureaus, Offices, Agencies, and Instrumentalities of the Government, Local Government Units of all levels, and Government-owned. or. Controlled Corporations are hereby directed to undertake activities in accordance with the spirit of. this Proclamation.

The Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Chamber of Thrift Banks, the Rural Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Financial Executives Institute of the Philippines, and all members of the mass media, civic and commercial associations..-and non-governmental organizations are hereby... ‘yequested* to extend their full support and cooperation in this campaign. ,

## Page 3

Credit Consciousness Week April 24 to 30 of every year

X 7 - > e x

2 h Supersedes Proclamation No. 1837, dated March 36,

[N WITNESS WHERFOER, f£ fave hereunto set ms hand wre

caused the seal of the Republic of the Phi bippines to be affixed

Dene in the City of Mantla, this 25th day of Apr in Lhe vear of Ont Lord, mineteen hundred and ninety five.

——

### PMS LIBRARY

Reeeived M, ¥ { i 708 t foe

### WY TTT

### PMS LIRRARY BCODE007823

## Page 4

### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK 2022 ART CARDS Facebook Cover Photo 860 x 320

### (Y) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

.Wastong pag-utang, susi sa pagbangon ng ba ### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK 24 - 30 April

Social Media Card 1500 x 1250

### Y) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Wastong pag-utang, susi Sa pagbangon ng bayan

### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK 24 - 30 April 2022

### TAN

## Page 5

### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK 2022 ART CARDS Web Banner 1250 x 600

### (Y) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Wastong pag-utang, susi Sa pagbangon ng bayan ### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK

24 - 30 April 2022

### I WE ARE OPEN I

COO ae

ATM Screen 1280 x 978

### ‘Y) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Wastong pag-utang, susi Sa pagbangon ng bayan

### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK 24 - 30 April 2022

