### # CL-2024-023

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2024-023

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution Nos. TF-86, TF-87, and TF-88 (Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution Nos. 54 [2023], 53 [2023], and 55 [2023], respectively)

This is to disseminate the AMLC TF Resolutions (copies attached), directing the issuance of ### Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) to take effect immediately against the following:

(i) AMLC Resolution No. TF-86' - Communist Party of the Philippines and the New People’s Army also known as Bagong Hukbong Bayan (CPP-NPA);

(ii) AMLC Resolution No. TF-87? - Elizabeth Pineda Principe; and

(iii) AMLC Resolution No. TF-88? - Islamic State of East Asia and other Daesh-linked or associated groups along with all their variant names;

pursuant to their designation/maintaining their designation as terrorist individual, organizations, associations, or groups by virtue of the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution Nos. 54 (2023), 53 (2023), and 55 (2023), respectively, and the freezing and preserving without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts, belonging to the designated terrorist individual/organizations: (a) property or funds that are owned or controlled by any of the subjects of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat; (b) property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the subjects of designation; (c) property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the subjects of designation; and (d) property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of any of the subjects of designation.

BSFls are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return, pursuant to, and containing the details required under Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) Suspicious Transaction Reports on all previous transactions of the designated individual/organizations within five (5) days from the effectivity of the SFO.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by any of the individual/organizations designated under ATC Resolution Nos. 54 (2023), 53 (2023), and 55 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individual/organizations; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individual/organizations, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

Copies of the AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-86, TF-87, and TF-88 (Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution Nos. 54 [2023], 53 [2023], and 55 [2023], respectively), may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website (www.amlc.gov.ph).

For information and strict compliance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2024.04.22 22:36:10 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor 22 April 2024

Att: a/s

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines ### AML@ ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS IN RELATION TO ### ANTI-TERRORISM COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 54 (2023)

The public, covered institutions as defined under Section 3(c) Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), in relation to Section 3(a) of RA No. 9160 or The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2021, as amended (AMLA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-86, Series of 2024, embodying a Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the Communist Party of the Philippines and the New People’s Army also known as Bagong Hukbong Bayan (CPP-NPA) pursuant to the

maintaining of their designation as terrorist organizations, associations, or groups of persons by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) by virtue of ATC Resolution No. 54 (2023), and directed the freezing and preserving without delay of the following property or funds, ### including related accounts, belonging to the abovementioned designated organizations:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by any of the subjects of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the subjects of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the subjects of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of any of the subjects of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and ### instrumentalities who:

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any

property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 8708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 8708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 3

Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 54 (2023)

owned or controlled by any of the organizations designated under ATC Resolution No. 54 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated organizations; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to any of the said designated organizations,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered institutions are mandated to submit a Suspicious Transaction Report of all previous transactions of the designated organizations within five (5) days from effectivity of the Sanctions Freeze Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds, including related accounts, are frozen are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of this Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council ### Resolution No. 54 (2023) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amic.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

8 March 2024, Manila.

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Chairman (Governor, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas)

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### EMILIO B. AQUINO REYNALDO A. REGALADO Member Member (Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission) (Commissioner, Insurance Commission)

Page 2 of 2

## Page 4

Republic of the Philippines ### AML@ ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS IN RELATION TO ### ANTI-TERRORISM COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 53 (2023)

The public, covered institutions as defined under Section 3(c) Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), in relation to Section 3(a) of RA No. 9160 or The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2021, as amended (AMLA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-87, Series of 2024, embodying a Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against Elizabeth Pineda Principe also known as Bining/ Trining/ Lagring/ Saleng/ Imay/ Magat/ Blue/ Blu/ Caroline/ Gelly/ Lola/ Rosel/ Rochel Lumen/ Epie/ Puti/ Ateng/ Vox/ Novo/ Epson/ Marma/ Mao/ Rek/ Che-Che/ Ethel Oyeng/ Uying pursuant to her designation as a terrorist individual by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) by virtue of ATC Resolution No. 53 (2023), and directed the freezing and preserving without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts, ### belonging to the abovementioned designated individual:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and ### instrumentalities who:

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 8708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 8708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 5

Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 53 (2023)

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individual designated under ATC Resolution No. 53 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individual; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individual,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered institutions are mandated to submit a Suspicious Transaction Report of all previous transactions of the designated individual within five (5) days from effectivity of the Sanctions Freeze Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds, including related accounts, are frozen are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of this Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council ### Resolution No. 53 (2023) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website:

www.amic.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

15 March 2024, Manila.

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Chairman (Governor, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas)

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### EMILIO B. AQUINO REYNALDO A. REGALADO Member Member (Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission) (Commissioner, Insurance Commission)

Page 2 of 2

## Page 6

Republic of the Philippines

### AML ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

a

### TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS IN RELATION TO ### ANTI-TERRORISM COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 55 (2023)

The public, covered institutions as defined under Section 3(c) Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), in relation to Section 3(a) of RA No. 9160 or The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2021, as amended (AMLA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-88, Series of 2024, embodying a Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the Islamic State of East Asia and other Daesh-linked

### or associated groups along with all their variant names, particularly:

1. Islamic State of East Asia

OS 37 AT TFT TM moO a0 oo

East Asia Province

Daesh-East Asia

Dawlah/Daulah Islamiyah

Dawlatul Islamiyah Waliyatul Masrik

Dawlatul Islamiyyah Waliyatul Mashriq

Islamic State East Asia Division

Islamic State East Asia Province

Islamic State in Iraq and Syria in Southeast/South-East Asia Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant in Southeast Asia Islamic State in Iraq and Syria-Philippines

Islamic State in the Philippines

Islamic State-Philippines

. Islamic State Sunrise Province

Wilayah East Asia Wilayat Sharq Assiya

2. Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG)

a. b. c. d.

al-Harakatul al-Islamiyah Mujahideen Commando Fighters Dawlah or Daulah Islamiyah (DI)-ASG Dl-Sulu / DI-Basilan

3. Maute Group

a. b. c.

d e. f

DI-Maute Group

Maute-ISIS

Grupong ISIS

DI-Lanao

DI-Ranao

Khilafah Islamiyah Mindanao

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 8708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 8708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 7

Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 55 (2023)

g. al-Ghuraba

4. Maguid Group

a. Dl-Maguid Group

b. Ansar / Ansarul /Asharul Khilafah Philippines / Pilipinas c. Nilong Group

d. DI-SOCCSKSARGEN

5. Turaifie Group

a. DI-Turaifie Group b. Jama’atu al-Muhajirin wal Ansar fil Filibin c. Dl-Maguindanao

6. Hassan Group

a. Dl-Hassan Group

b. Salahuddin Hassan Group

c. Al Khobar / Al-Khobar Group

d. Al Khobar-Salahuddin Hassan Group

e. Al Khobar-Daulah Islamiyah (Dl)- Salahuddin Hassan Group f. Al-Khobar-DI Hassan

g. Alkhobar/ Alkobar/ Alquobar

7. Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF)

a. BIFF-Karialan b. BIFF-Bungos

pursuant to the maintaining of their designation as terrorist organizations, associations, and/or groups of persons by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) by virtue of ATC Resolution No. 55 (2023), and directed the freezing and preserving without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts, belonging to the abovementioned ### designated organizations:

a.

property or funds that are owned or controlled by any of the subjects of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the subjects of designation;

property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the subjects of designation; and

property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of any of the subjects of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 8

Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 55 (2023)

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and ### instrumentalities who:

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by any of the organizations designated under ATC Resolution No. 55 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated organizations; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to any of the said designated organizations,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered institutions are mandated to submit a Suspicious Transaction Report of all previous transactions of the designated organizations within five (5) days from effectivity of the Sanctions Freeze Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds, including related accounts, are frozen are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of this Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council ### Resolution No. 55 (2023) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website:

www.amic.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

26 March 2024, Manila.

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Chairman (Governor, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas)

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### EMILIO B. AQUINO REYNALDO A. REGALADO Member Member (Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission) (Commissioner, Insurance Commission)

Page 3 of 3 