### # CL-2022-014

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-014

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All Non-Bank Financial Institutions with Quasi- Banking Functions and/or Trust Authority

Subject : Publication/Posting of Statement of Condition and/or Consolidated Statement of Condition

Pursuant to Section 61 of Republic Act No. 8791, a call is hereby made for the publication by your institution of its Statement of Condition (Head Office, branches and other offices) side-by-side with its Consolidated Statement of Condition (parent institution and its subsidiaries and affiliates), if applicable, as of 31 December 2021, in accordance with Section 172-Q of the Manual of Regulations for Non- Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) for quasi-banks and Section 144-N of MORNBEFI for trust entities.

Such Statement of Condition and Consolidated Statement of Condition, where applicable, shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city/province where the principal office is located, but if no newspaper is published in the same city/province, then in a newspaper published in Metro Manila or in the nearest city/province within twenty (20) working days from the date of this Circular Letter.

The original and a copy of the Statement of Condition and/or Consolidated Statement of Condition, where applicable, shall be scanned and submitted in pdf format within twenty (20) working days from the date of this Circular Letter at fssmail@bsp.gov.ph in accordance with Memorandum No. M-2021-036 dated 28 June 2021.

Copies of the Statement of Condition and Consolidated Statement of Condition, where applicable, as published, together with the publisher's certificate shall also be scanned and submitted in pdf format at fssmail@bsp.gov.ph within five (5) working days from the

date of publication. Digitally signed by . ChuchiG. Fonacier

Date: 2022.02.09

14:30:18 +08'00"

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

O09 February 2022

Page 1 of 1 