### # CL-2020-021

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR Monetary and Economics Sector

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2020-_021

To : All Authorized Agent Banks (AABs)/AAB forex corps and All Concerned Entities

Subject : Reports for Submission to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) — International Operations Department (IOD)

In line with BSP Circular No. 1080 dated 27 March 2020 [Operational relief measures for foreign exchange (FX) transactions under the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual), as amended] and Circular Letter No. CL-2020-017 dated 27 March 2020, the following detailed guidelines shall be ### observed for submission of all reports to the BSP-IOD:

1. For reports? due for submission during the period covered by BSP Circular No. 1080 (i.e., for the duration of the declaration § of “community quarantine’”®> by the Office of the President, or as may be extended by the BSP) and up to one (1) month thereafter, reports originally ### required to be submitted under the FX Manual in:

a. Soft copy shall be submitted instead to the BSP-IOD through the email addresses specified under Item No. 2 of this CLS. Submissions beyond one (1) month after the duration of BSP Circular No. 1080 shall only be made thru BSP-IOD group email accounts; and

b. Hard copy may be submitted in electronic form to the BSP-IOD through the email addresses specified under Item No. 2 of this CL. Submissions beyond one (1) month after the duration of BSP Circular No. 1080 shall only be made in hard copies.

9 Including supporting documents

Any form of community quarantine declared by the OP (e.g., general/enhanced/extreme enhanced

community quarantine)

© As the access to the BSP-IOD designated email addresses where the reports are originally submitted is limited, any submission of reports to the said designated email addresses after the date of posting of this CL at the BSP website will not be considered submitted for purposes of compliance with the reportorial requirements of the BSP-IOD.

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines ¢ (632) 7087701 * www.bsp.gov.ph ¢ bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

2. Reports under Item No. 1 shall be submitted to the following email ### addresses’:

Title of Report

Email address

A. Foreign Trade Transactions

Import Letters of Credit (L/Cs) Opened and DA-OA Import Availments and Extensions (Schedule 10 of FX Form 1)

Import Payments (Schedule 11 of FX Form 1)

ccsarmiento@bsp.gov.ph cc: ccoloma@bsp.gov.ph; limjoa@bsp.gov.ph

Monthly Report on Sale/Remittance of Foreign Exchange (FX) for Advance Payment of Importations (Annex B)

Monthly Report on Purchase of Foreign Exchange (FX) from Refund of Advance Payment of Importations (Annex C)

delossantosmv@bsp.gov.ph cc: antoniocc@bsp.gov.ph

Report on Transactions under Intercompany Netting Arrangements (Annex Z)

cervantesam@bsp.gov.ph idiomt@bsp.gov.ph

B. Foreign/Foreign Currency Loans/Borrowings

ID-Form 5 - Report on Bank Liabilities to Non-Residents including certification for correctness and consistency with the Financial Reporting Package (FRP)

fcramos@bsp.gov.ph abalosjm@bsp.gov.ph

Report on Short-Term Foreign Borrowings (Annex E.1)

Report on Medium- and Long-Term Foreign Borrowings (Annex E.2)

Loan/Borrowing Profile (Annex E.3) for initial reporting of loans/borrowings

ammagsino@bsp.gov.ph cc: cgalit@bsp.gov.ph; dayritmr@bsp.gov.ph

Consolidated Report on Foreign Currency Loans Granted by Regular Banking Units (Annex E.5) including certification for correctness and consistency with the FRP (Appendix 21-Part A)

1OS Form 4 - Consolidated Reports on Loans Granted by FCDUs® (Annex E.4) including certification for correctness and consistency with the FRP

ndelacena@bsp.gov.ph malunayac@bsp.gov.ph

Report on Guarantees (Annex G)

Report on Cancellations, Roll-overs and Non-delivery of Deliverable Foreign Exchange Forward Purchase and Sale Contracts and Forward Leg of Swap Contracts (Annex L)

Report on Foreign Exchange Swaps with Customers where the First Leg is a Purchase of Foreign Exchange Against Pesos (Annex M)

angea@bsp.gov.ph guanzoncr@bsp.gov.ph

C. Foreign Investments

Report on Philippine Debt Papers (Annex J)

ccsarmiento@bsp.gov.ph cc: ccoloma@bsp.gov.ph; doradoed@bsp.gov.ph libiranag@bsp.gov.ph

Report on Foreign Investments Registered with the BSP (Annex X)

mabolokc@bsp.gov.ph cc: antoniocc@bsp.gov.ph

dA separate CL may be issued to update the email addresses in this CL, as needed.

© Foreign Currency Deposit Units

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

Title of Report Email address

Report on PSE‘Listed Equity Securities Issued by Non-Residents (Annex Y), with supporting documents required under Appendix 1.2

Report on Foreign Investments Registered with AABs® Report on Investments by Residents (Annex V)

Report on Foreign Exchange (FX) Remittances For Excess I sladan@bsp.gov.ph/ Pesos From Unrealized Investments (Annex AA) cc: antoniocc@bsp.gov.ph Report on Outstanding Balances of Foreign Investments Registered with AABs (Annex AB)

Report on Interim Peso Deposits (IPDs) of Registered Foreign Investments (Annex AC)

Report on Foreign Direct Investments Registered with AABs (Annex AD)

3. Submission of aforementioned reports to BSP-IOD through electronic means shall be done through official emails/electronic or digital channels/systems.

4. Monetary penalties for delays incurred in the submission of reports to the BSP-IOD due during the period covered by BSP Circular No. 1080 or as may be extended, and up to one (1) month thereafter will not be imposed by the BSP in accordance with BSP Circular No. 1080.

5. Notwithstanding the non-imposition of monetary penalty, it is understood that reporting entities that have the capacity to submit the reports on time shall do so to allow the BSP to process and generate relevant and timely data for policy review and formulation, analysis of flows, trends and developments, reporting and statistics, should the need arise. Submission of reports covered under this CL shall be made until one (1) month after the period cited in Item 4.

6. This CL shall also apply when similar circumstance/s occur in the future that would warrant a work from home arrangement.

For guidance and implementation.

) j

Nira Ae AeA ### FRANCISCO G. DAKILA, JR.

Deputy Governor

07 April 2020

Philippine Stock Exchange

8 In lieu of supporting documents to the report, only scanned copies of the Bangko Sentral Registration Document Letter Advice (BSRDLA) shall be submitted by AABs [except those submitting the Report on Interim Peso Deposits (IPDs) of Foreign Investments Registered with AABs (Annex AC of the FX Manual) whose reports funded by IPDs may be readily verified by the BSP-IOD] for the duration of BSP Circular No. 1080 and up to one (1) month thereafter. Said scanned copies of BSRDLAs shall be submitted together with the said report.

Page 3 of 3 