### # CL-2021-006

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021- 006

To : All Applicants for the Establishment of New Banks Subject : Clarification on the Guidelines on the Establishment of New Banks

This is to inform all prospective applicants for new banks that the Bangko Sentral has issued the Guidelines on the Establishment of Digital Banks as embodied under Circular No. 1105 dated 02 December 2020.

Circular No. 1105 provides the regulatory framework for the establishment of digital banks and recognizes such as a distinct classification of banks. Said regulatory issuance defines a digital bank to clearly distinguish it from the other types of banks. In this respect, new bank applications with business model that essentially meets the definition of a digital bank shall be treated and evaluated as digital banking license applications, regardless of the type of bank indicated in the application. Accordingly, the applicants should comply with the prudential requirements for the establishment of a digital bank. Moreover, the documentary requirements are provided in Appendix 33 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks, as amended (i.e., Annex A of Circular No. 1105).

The licensing of a digital bank will generally follow the existing procedures and timelines as set in the Citizen’s Charter. If any, kindly email clarification or query on the processing of application for authority to establish a digital bank to ospd@bsp.gov.ph.

For information and guidance.

Digitally signed by

, Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.01.12 10:02:01 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

12 January 2021

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Marve, Phi po nes ¢ (622) 2708-7701 « www-bsp.gov.ph « bspmail@osp.govpr 