### # CL-2023-018

## Page 1

To

### Subject :

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE MANAGING DIRECTOR International Monetary Affairs and Surveillance Sub-Sector

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-018

ALL AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs) and SUBSIDIARY/AFFILIATE EXCHANGE CORPORATIONS OF AABs (AAB-

forex corps)

### FOREIGN

Lost and/or cancelled Bangko Sentral

Registration Documents (BSRDs)

Please be advised that the following BSRDs (total of 14) covering the registration of the foreign direct investment in investee firms absorbed by ### CEMCO HOLDINGS, INC.? have been reported lost and/or cancelled:

Investee Firm

Registration No.

Registration

Foreign Investor

Date Southern Cross Central Bank Registration Itochu Corporation, Japan Cement Document (CBRD) No. 25-Aug-1994 I (chu Ja van} wap Corporation (DE/S) 94-00517 Pp (SCCC) Bangko Sentral Registration Document No. I 23-Jan-1996 Itochu Japan (BSRD) No. (DE) 96-00041 BSRD No. (DE) 96-00650 10-Jun-1996 Itochu Japan ### CHICHIBU ONODA CEMENT BSRD No. (DE) 96-00649 10-Jun-1996 CORPORATION, Japan CBRD No. (DE/S) 94-00515 25-Aug-1994 KAORU KATAYAMA, Japanese National CBRD No. (DE/S) 94-00516 26-Aug-1994 TOKUYAMA SODA CO. LTD, Japan BSRD No. (DE) 96-00040 23-Jan-1996 TOKUYAMA CORPORATION, Japan BSRD No. (DE) 96-00648 10-Jun-1996 TOKUYAMA CORPORATION, Japan Lafarge Holdings BSRD No. AO12712-DE 02-Feb-2007 Blue Circle Global Investments Limited, Philippines, Inc. United Kingdom ### (LHPI) BSRD No. AO12774-DE 27-Jun-2007 Financiere Lafarge S.A.S., France (Lafarge France) BSRD No. AO14960-DE 24-Dec-2008 I Lafarge France

8CEMCO HOLDINGS, INC. was the surviving corporation upon its merger with eight

(8) domestic corporations (i.e., LHPI,

LGMC, SCCC, Bulacan Holdings, Inc.,

Calumboyan Holdings, Inc., Round Royal Inc., Seacem Silos, Inc., and South Western Cement Ventures, Inc.). The Securities and Exchange Commission issued a Certificate of Filing of the Articles and Plan of Merger on 7 May 2021.

## Page 2

Limay Grinding b Eerste Nederlandse SE Cement Mill Corporation BSRD No. (DE) 99-00077 7-May-1999 Industries (ENCI) N.V., The Netherlands ### (LGMC)

BSRD No. (DE) 98-00685 18-Nov-1998 P.T. Hasjrat Abadi, Indonesia

BSRD No. AO09104-DE 19-Mar-2003 Enci Holding N.V., The Netherlands

Above registration documents have been cancelled and should not be honored if found and presented for purchase of foreign exchange for capital repatriation or remittance of earnings, pursuant to Section 38 of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions, as amended.

For information and compliance.

cal HERINE C. EARMIENTO

Officer-In-Charge

2 March 2023

>This superseded and cancelled BSRD (DE) 99-00017 dated 28 January 1999.

