### # CL-2021-007

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021-007

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution Nos. TF-33 and TF-34, Series of 2020

Consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including the United Nations (UN) Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, the AMLC issued Resolutions directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) to take effect immediately against those subject of designation as follows (copy ### attached):

a. AMLC Resolution No. TF-33, Series of 2020, dated 23 December 2020 — SFO against the Communist Party of the Philippines and the New People’s Army also known as Bagong Hukbong Bayan (CPP/NPA), pursuant to its designation as terrorist organization or group of persons by the Anti- Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 12, Series of 2020, dated 09 December 2020; and

b. AMLC Resolution No. TF-34, Series of 2020, dated 23 December 2020 - SFO against the (1) Islamic State in Iraq and Syria in South-East Asia; (2) Dawlatul Islamiyah Waliyatul Masrik; (3) Dawlatul Islamiyyah Waliyatul Mashriq; (4) IS East Asia Division; (5) Maute Group; (6) Islamic State East Asia; (7) Maute ISIS; (8) Grupong ISIS; (9) Grupo ISIS; (10) Khilafah Islamiyah; (11) Khilafah Islamiyah Mindanao; (12) Ansharul Khilafah; (13) Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters-Bungo; (14) Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters-Abubakar; (15) Jama’atu al-Muhajirin wal Ansar fil Filibin; (16) Daulah Islamiyah; and (17) other Daesh-affiliated groups in the Philippines, pursuant to their designation as terrorist organizations, associations, or group of persons, by the ATC Resolution No. 13, Series of 2020, dated 09 December 2020.

The above resolutions require the freezing without delay of the following ### property or funds, including related accounts:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subjects of

designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines * (632) 87087701 * www.bsp.gov.ph © bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the designated persons, organizations, associations, or group of persons;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the designated persons, organizations, associations, or group of persons; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the designated persons, organizations, associations, or group of persons.

BSFls are directed to submit to the AMLC: (i) a written return, pursuant to, and containing the details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Terrorism Financing and Prevention Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (ii) Suspicious Transaction Reports on all previous transactions of the designated persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons, within five (5) days from receipt of the Sanctions Freeze Order.

BSFls are also reminded that those who a) deal directly or indirectly with any property or funds that they know or have reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the designated persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those subjects of designation; or b) make available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the designated persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

A copy of the AMLC Resolutions may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and strict compliance. Digitally signed by Chuchi G. *Fonacier Date: 2021.01.13 20:52:20 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

Att.: A/S

13 January 2021

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

Republic of the Philippines ### AMLC - “. ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF-33, SERIES OF 2020

The public, covered persons and institutions as defined under Republic Act (RA) No. 10168 or The Terrorism Financing and Prevention Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, Department of Trade and Industry, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines, are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-33, Series of 2020, dated 23 December 2020, directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the Communist Party of the Philippines and the New People’s Army also known as Bagong Hukbong Bayan (CPP/NPA), pursuant to its designation as terrorist organization or group of persons by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 12, Series of 2020, dated 09 December 2020, and the freezing without ### delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the CPP/NPA, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the CPP/NPA;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the CPP/NPA; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the CPP/NPA.

All the above covered persons and institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons and institutions, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and ### government agencies and instrumentalities who:

a. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the CPP/NPA, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such CPP/NPA; or

## Page 4

Notice of AMLC Resolution No. TF-33, Series of 2020

### AMLE

ed

b. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the CPP/NPA,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

All covered persons and institutions are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Reports all previous transactions of the CPP/NPA within five (5) days from receipt of this Sanctions Freeze Order.

All persons, organizations, associations, or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts, are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under RA No. 11479 or The Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020 (ATA) and its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-33, Series of 2020, dated 23 December 2020, and ATC Resolution No. 12, Series of 2020, dated 09 December 2020, may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and immediate compliance.

23 December 2020, Manila.

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2

## Page 5

MLO Republic of the Philippines ### AMLC ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

Mm La rebere

-

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF-34, SERIES OF 2020

The public, covered persons and institutions as defined under Republic Act (RA) No. 10168 or The Terrorism Financing and Prevention Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, Department of Trade and Industry, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines, are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-34, Series of 2020, dated 23 December 2020, directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order, to take effect immediately against the (1) Islamic State in Iraq and Syria in South-East Asia; (2) Dawlatul Islamiyah Waliyatul Masrik; (3) Dawlatul Islamiyyah Waliyatul Mashriq; (4) IS East Asia Division; (5) Maute Group; (6) Islamic State East Asia; (7) Maute ISIS; (8) Grupong ISIS; (9) Grupo ISIS; (10) Khilafah Islamiyah; (11) Khilafah Islamiyah Mindanao; (12) Ansharul Khilafah; (13) Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters-Bungo; (14) Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters-Abubakar; (15) Jama’atu al-Muhajirin wal Ansar fil Filibin; (16) Daulah Islamiyah; and (17) other Daesh-affiliated groups in the Philippines, pursuant to their designation as terrorist organizations, assocations, or group of persons, by the Anti- Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 13, Series of 2020, dated 09 December 2020, and ### the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subjects of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the aforementioned organizations, assocaitions, or group of persons;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the aforementioned organizations, assocaitions, or group of persons; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the aforementioned organizations, assocaitions, or group of persons.

All the above covered persons and institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

## Page 6

Notice of AMLC Resolution No. TF-34, Series of 2020.

### AML Oo Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons and institutions, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and ### government agencies and instrumentalities who:

a. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons designated as terrorists pursuant to ATC Resolution No. 13, Series of 2020, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons; or

b. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons designated as terrorists pursuant to ATC Resolution No. 13, Series of 2020,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

All covered persons and institutions are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Reports all previous transactions of the herein designated persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons within five (5) days from receipt of this Sanctions Freeze Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts, are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under RA No. 11479 or The Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020 (ATA) and its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-34, Series of 2020, dated 23 December 2020, and ATC Resolution No. 13, Series of 2020, dated 09 December 2020, may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and immediate compliance. 23 December 2020, Manila. ### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA

Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2 