### # CL-2023-007

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-907

To All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs) and Other Relevant Stakeholders Subject Reconstitution of the Open Finance Oversight

Committee Transition Group (OFOCTG)

This Circular Letter is being issued to formally recognize the previously approved changes in the membership of the OFOC TG, ### thereby superseding Circular Letter No. CL-2022-002:

### REPRESENTATIVES

### CATEGORY PRIMARY ALTERNATE

-

* *?* *

Universal and Commercial Banks (UKBs)

Thrift Banks (TBs)!

Rural Banks (RBs)

Digital Banks (DBs)

E-Money Issuer-Others (EMI-Others)

Mr. Jonathan John B. Paz

Vice-President and Data Protection and Enterprise Information Security Officer, Bank of the Philippine Islands

Mr. Emmanuel A. Tuazon

Senior Vice President and Head of Marketing and Communications Group, Philippine Savings Bank (PSBank} Ms. Tanya P. Hotchkiss Executive Vice President, Cantilan Bank, Inc. (A Rural Bank Ms. Maria Lourdes Jocelyn S. Pineda President, Tonik Digital

Mr. Wilfred G. Tan Chief Technology Officer, OmniPay, Inc.

‘Effective 04 August 2022 ? Effective 28 June 2022

. a «8 ee © oe ee ee

Mr. Frederick M. Faustino

Division Head, Business Development and Onboarding, Digital Channels Group, BPI

Mr. Noli S. Gomez Executive Vice President and Operations Group Head, PSBank

Mr. Paulo R. Honrado* Chairman and President, Rural Bank of Guinobatan

Mr. Victor Q. Lim, Jr. Chief Operating Officer, ### TONIK

Ms. Anna Liza Eugenio- Alicastre

Chief Operating Officer, ### OMNIPAY

## Page 2

### REPRESENTATIVES ### CATEGORY PRIMARY ALTERNATE

Mr. Dennis S. Gatuslao® I Atty. Guadalupe Lyn P.

Operators of

Payment Chief Commercial and Vergel de Dios* Systems Marketing Officer, CIS Head of Compliance (OPS) Bayad Center, Inc. and Government

Relations Xendit Philippines, Inc. Atty. Mark S. Gorriceta Managing Partner,

Gorriceta Africa Cauton & Saavedra

Ms. Imelda C. Tiongson Trustee, FinTech Alliance.ph

FinTech

For information and guidance.

### FRANCISCO G. DAKILA, JR. Officer-in-Charge

2Hanuary 2023

3 Effective 25 January 2022 * Effective 06 September 2022

Page 2 of 2 