### # CL-2023-013

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2023-013

To : ALL BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) ### SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Subject : Disqualification from Registration with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) of Two (2) Entities Operating as Money Service Businesses (MSBs) Without Prior BSP Registration

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1381 dated 16 September 2022, approved the disqualification of the below listed Entities and any sole proprietorship owned and/or controlled by their respective owners/operators from registering with, and/or obtaining a license from, the BSP to engage in any activity that is authorized or supervised by the BSP for operating as MSBs without prior BSP registration.

Entity Location Name of Owner/Operator’ KIDLAT FAST Rusi Bldg., Sta. Rosa I Ernesto R. Ramas-Uypitching CASH INC. St., Poblacion No. 2 Don T. Ramas-Uypitching

(Barangay 2), Anita S. Ramas-Uypitching Dumaguete City, Roberto R. Ramas-Uypitching 6200 Negros I Nikki J. Ramas-Uypitching Oriental Antonio S. Ramas-Uypitching Sr.

Tyrone T. Ramas-Uypitching Willis R. Ramas-Uypitching Cristina Ramas-Uypitching

Joan S. Ramas-Uypitching

Sally S. Ramas-Uypitching

Cindy J. Ramas-Uypitching Antonio T. Ramas-Uypitching, Jr.

TONG'S MONEY I Tangnan, Panglao,

CHANGER 6340 Bohol Ms. Jered Jane Yap

For information and guidance. Digitally signed by .Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2023.02.15 23:55:42 +08'00' ### CHUCHIG. FONACIER Deputy Governor

15 February 2023

I Information on the shareholders was extracted from the latest General Information Sheet of KIDLAT FAST CASH INC., filed by Ms. Nikki J. Ramas-Uypitching, Corporate Secretary per her notarized declaration dated 16 March 2020, obtained via the Securities and Exchange Commission Express System on 19 August 2022. 