### # CL-2021-048

## Page 1

Ooee te Ce

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

Venn,

fs a2 = CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021-048

' © 6 ws w

‘ On

0 : as TS : ALL BANKING INSTITUTIONS

Bde af Subject : Savings Consciousness Week 2021

eat Pursuant to Proclamation No. 380 dated 15 May 1994 (copy attached) ak " designating June 30 to July 6 as Savings Consciousness Week, all banking an institutions and their branches are enjoined to undertake during the period promotional and publicity-generating activities such as advertising, window and counter displays, streamers, distribution of give-aways, raffles, and similar incentives and devices consistent with existing minimum health satis and social distancing protocols.

We enjoin the banking industry to continuously encourage the public to save in banking institutions and further raise awareness on the vital role of savings in the country’s economic development.

To unify the campaign for our celebration of Savings Consciousness Week 2021, banks are requested to incorporate the theme, “Pinagpagurang nee, pera ay ingatan, pag-iimpok sa bangko ay simulan’ and the phrase "Savings mel’ Consciousness Week, June 30-July 6, 2021" in their promotional materials and ww. print advertisements during the period. In particular, we encourage the Moo. panking community to post the theme slogan in their respective websites “.. and/or social media pages.

pas, For more information, banks may contact the BSP Communication ates Office by email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

aXe BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Te Governor

[} June 2021

Wi Att: AVS

et ¢ @ 8811-IBSP (1277) fe] bspmail@bsp.gov.ph © bsp.gov.ph e A. Mabini St. Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines

## Page 2

