### # CL-2024-058

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2024-058

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution No. TF-102 (Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council [ATC] Resolution No. 64 [2024])

This is to disseminate the AMLC Resolution No. TF-102' dated 27 December 2024, amending Resolution Nos. TF-39 and TF-41, to take effect immediately the (a) LIFTING of the Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) and Targeted Financial Sanctions (TFS) with respect to the property or funds of the delisted terrorist individuals who are excluded in ATC Resolution No. 64 (2024); and (b) MAINTAINING the SFO and TFS on individuals whose designation was maintained and who are identified in ATC Resolution No. 64 (2024) (copy attached).

BSFls are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return pursuant to, and containing the details required, under Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) Suspicious Transaction Report on all previous transactions of the designated individual within five (5) days from the publication of this Notice.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the designated individual under ATC Resolution No. 64 (2024), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individuals, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

For information and strict compliance.

### Digitally signed by: Judith E. Sungsai me * Date: 27 December 2024

### DITH E. SUNGSAI Sector-in-Charge

_27 December 2024

Att: a/s

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines ### AM LOX ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

Anti-Money Laundering Council

### NOTICE OF TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS IN RELATION TO ### ANTI-TERRORISM COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 64 (2024)

The public, covered institutions as defined under Section 3(c) of Republic Act (RA) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), in relation to Section 3(a) of RA No. 9160 or The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 200], as amended (AMLA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti- Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-102, series of 2024, amending Resolution Nos. TF-39 and ### TF-4I1, to take effect immediately:

A. LIFTING the Sanctions Freeze Order and Targeted Financial Sanctions with respect to the property or funds of the following delisted terrorist individuals who are excluded in Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution ### (ATC) Resolution No. 64 (2024):

1) Salahuddin Hassan a.k.a. Orak/ Salah/ Tulea/ Abu Salman;

2) Radzmil Jannatul a.k.a. Knubayb/ Kubayb/ Kubaib/ Kubaeb/ Baeb;

3) Majan Sahidjuan a.k.a. Apo Mike/ Apoh Mike;

4) Faharudin Benito Hadji Satar a.k.a. Jer Mimbantas/ Abu Zacaria/ Zacharia/ Abu Bakar/ Omar;

5) Mudsrimar Sawadjaan a.k.a. Mundi Sawadjaan/ Puruh Sawadjaan/ Puroh;

6) Hajan Sawadjaan/ Hatib Hajan Sawadjaan a.k.a. Pah Hajan/ Abdulhajan/ Abduhajan;

7) Furuji Amirin Indama/Furuji Indama a.k.a. Abu Sopek/ Abu Dujana/ Ustadz Faidz/ Ben Dudjanan/ Juljama Indama;

8) Hassan Solaiman Indal/ Hassal Indal a.k.a. Abu Azam/Abu Hassan/ Assam/ Abu Ali

9) Norodin Hassan/ Nur Hassan a.k.a. Andot Hassan/ Andot/ Dots/ Dot;

10) Yusoph Hadji Nassif/ Osoph Hadji Nassif/ Osop Hadji Nasir a.k.a. Abu Asraf/ Abu Arap/ Osoph/ Osop;

Tl) Mahir Sandab a.k.a. Abu Jihad/ Jihad/ Lumen/ Telmijie;

12) Sukarno Sapal a.k.a. Abubakar Sapal/ Zulkarnain Sapal/ Sukarno Abubakar Joke/ Diok/"CS 52"/ Zuk;

13) Kupang Sahak/ Kopang Sahak a.k.a. Commander Tarzan/ Tarzan/ Tarsan/ Bapa Sahak.

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel. No.: (+632) 8708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 8708-79-09 e www.amlc.gov.poh e secretariat@amic.gov.oph

## Page 3

Notice of Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 64 (2024)

B. MAINTAINING the Sanctions Freeze Order and other Targeted Financial Sanctions with respect to the property or funds of the following individuals whose designation was maintained and who are ### identified in ATC Resolution No. 64 (2024):

1) Esmael Abdulmalik a.k.a. Cmdr Turaifie/ Abu Turaifie/ Abu Toraype;

2) Raden Faisal aka Raden Abu;

3) Esmael Abubakar/ Esmail Abubakar/ Ismael Abubakar a.k.a. Cmdr Bungos/ Bungos;

4) Muhiddin Animbang/ Mohaiden Animbang/ Muhidden Animbang a.k.a. Kagui Karialan/ Karialan;

5) Almujer Yadah/ Almujir Yadah a.k.a. Mujer/ Mujir;

6) Radulan/Radullan Sahiron a.k.a. Commander Putol/ Gagandilan/Magang;

7) Sansibar Saliddin Bensio/Sansibar Saliddin Bencio a.k.a. Sibar/ Sansi;

8) Pasil Bayali a.k.a. Kera/ Kerah;

9) Abdullah Jovel Indanan/ Abdullah Indanan a.k.a. Guro/ Guroh;

10) Ibni Acosta/Acosta Ibni Y Ibrahim a.k.a. Abu Tini/ Alkaser Albani/ Moin/ Win;

11) Bensito Quirino Yadah/ Bensito Quirino Bakun/ Ben Quirino Yadah a.k.a. Ben Tattoo/ Ben Yadah;

12) Suhud Gaviola Salasim a.k.a. Ben Wagas;

13) Hassan Kulaw/ Mustapha Kassan Kulaw/ Kassan Kulaw/ Kasan Kulaw a.k.a. Abu Saiden/ Abu Zaiden;

14) Emarudin Kulaw/ Emaruddin Kulaw/ Samaruddin Kulaw/ Emarudin Kasan/ Emarudin Hassan a.k.a. Aloha King/ Alpha King Hassan;

15) Jaybee Mastura/Jayvee Mastura/ JB Mastura a.k.a. Abu Naim/ Abu Naem;

16) Solaiman Tudon/ Sulaiman Tudon a.k.a. Abu Jihad; and

17) Khadafi Abdulatif/ Knadaffi Abdulatip/ Khadaffy Abdulatif/ Kadaffy Abdullatip a.k.a. Yusa/ "CS 01"/ Zero One/ Mukayam.

and directing the freezing without delay of the following properties or funds owned or controlled by the abovementioned designated terrorist ### individuals:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other

assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

Page 2 of 4

## Page 4

Notice of Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 64 (2024)

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered persons and institutions, and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return pursuant to, and containing details required, under Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and ### government agencies and instrumentalities who:

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the designated individuals under ATC Resolution No. 64 (2024), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individuals,

Shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

All covered persons and institutions are mandated to submit a Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated individuals within five (5) days from the publication of this Notice.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti- Terrorism Act of 2020, and the TFPSA, and their respective Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of this Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti- Terrorism Council Resolution No. 64 (2024) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance.

27 December 2024, Manila

Page 3 of 4

## Page 5

Notice of Targeted Financial Sanctions In Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 64 (2024)

(Original signed) ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Chairman (Governor, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas)

(Original signed) (Original signed) ### EMILIO B. AQUINO REYNALDO A. REGALADO Member Member (Chairman, Securities and Exchange (Commissioner, Insurance Commission)

Commission)

Page 4 of 4 