### # CL-2022-021

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2022-021

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution No. TF-50, Series of 2022

This is to disseminate the AMLC Resolution No. TF-50' (copy attached) directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Orders (SFO) to take effect immediately against certain identified organizations of the Communist Party of the Philippines - New People's Army - National Democratic Front (NDF), also known as the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), pursuant to their designation as terrorists by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) and the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts: (a) property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat; (b) property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; (b) property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and (c) property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation.

BSFls are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return, pursuant to applicable laws and regulations; and (b) suspicious transaction report on all previous transactions of the subjects of designation within five (5) days from effectivity of the SFO.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the subject of designation, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those subjects of designation; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the subject of designation; shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

For information and strict compliance/implementation. Digitally signed by Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.03.07 10:09:14 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

_07 March 2022

Att: a/s

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines ### ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF- 50, SERIES OF 2022

The public, covered institutions as defined under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism- related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued resolution No. TF-50, Series of 2022, directing the issuance of Sanctions ### Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the following:

10.

11. 12.

13. 14. 15. 16.

Revolutionary Council of Trade Unions (RCTU);

Katipunan ng mga Samahang Manggagawa (KASAMA) or Federation of Labor Organizations;

Pambansang Katipunan ng Magbubukid (PKM) or National Association of Peasants;

Malayang Kilusan ng Bagong Kababaihan (MAKIBAKA) or Patriotic Movement of New Women;

Kabataang Makabayan (KM) or Patriotic Youth;

Katipunan ng Gurong Makabayan (KAGUMA) or Association of Patriotic Teachers;

Makabayang Samahan Pangkalusugan (MASAPA) or Patriotic Health Association;

Liga ng Agham para sa Bayan (LAB) or League of Scientists for the People; Lupon ng Manananggol para sa Bayan (LUMABAN) or Committee of Lawyers for the People;

Artista at Manunulat para sa Sambayanan (ARMAS) or Artists and Writers for the People;

Makabayang Kawaning Pilipino (MKP) or Patriotic Government Employees; Revolutionary Organization of Overseas Filipinos and their Families ### (COMPATRIOTS);

Christians for National Liberation (CNL);

Cordillera People’s Democratic Front (CPDF);

Moro Resistance and Liberation Organization (MRLO); and

Revolutionary Organization of Lumads (ROL)

pursuant to their designation as terrorist by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 28 (2022) dated 26 January 2022, and the freezing without delay of the following ### property or funds, including related accounts:

a.

property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 3

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and instrumentalities who

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individuals designated under Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 28 (2022), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individuals

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered persons are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from effectivity of this Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF- 50, Series of 2022 and ATC Resolution No. 28 (2022) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 4

For information and compliance.

22 February 2022, Manila.

Original Signed ### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 3 of 3 