### # CL-2024-002

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2024-Q002

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution No. TF-76 dated 04 January 2024 (Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council [ATC] Resolution No. 52 [2023])

This is to disseminate the AMLC Resolution No. TF-76 dated 04 January 2024' (copy attached), directing the issuance of a Sanctions Freeze Order (SFO) to take effect immediately against Ma. Augusta Divinagracia Araneta, pursuant to her designation as a terrorist individual by virtue of the ATC Resolution No. 52 dated 25 October 2023, and the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts, belonging to the designated ### terrorist individual:

(a) property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

(b) property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

(c) property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

(d) property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation.

BSFlis are reminded to submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return, pursuant to, and containing the details required under Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) Suspicious Transaction Reports on all previous transactions of the designated person within five (5) days from the effectivity of the SFO.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the designated individual under ATC Resolution Nos. 52 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individual; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the said designated individual, shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to the TFPSA.

Copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-76 (Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti- Terrorism Council Resolution No. 52 [2023]), may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC

website (www.amlc.gov.ph). Digitally signed by ~ChuchiG. Fonacier Date: 2024.01.15 15:17:48 +08'00"

For information and strict compliance. ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

15 January 2024

Att: a/s

## Page 2

Republic of the Philippines AM Le ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS IN RELATION TO ### ANTI-TERRORISM COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 52 (2023)

The public, covered institutions as defined under Section 3 (c) Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), in relation to Section 3(a) of RA No. 9160 or The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2001, as amended (AMLA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Registry of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the United Nations Charter, issued Resolution No. TF-76 Series of 2023, embodying a Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against Ma. Augusta Divinagracia Araneta pursuant to her designation as a terrorist individual by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) by virtue of ATC Resolution No. 52 (2023) dated 25 October 2023, and directed the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, including related accounts, belonging to the ### abovementioned designated terrorist individual:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

Cc. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the AMLC a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under Rule 16.c of the implementing Rules and Regulations of the TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and ### instrumentalities who:

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individuals designated under Anti-Terrorism

Room S07, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel. No.: (+632) 8708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 8708-79-09 <www.amic.gov.ph-secretariat@amic.gov.ph

## Page 3

Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation To Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 52 (2023)

Council Resolution No. 52 (2023), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individual; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individual,

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered institutions are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Reports all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from effectivity of she Sanctions Freeze Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or “unds, including related accounts, are frozen are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, its Implementing Rules and Regulations, and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Ruijes and Regulations.

A copy of this Targeted Financial Sanctions in Relation to Anti-Terrorism Council ### Resolution No, 52 (2003) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website:

www.amic.gov.pk,

For information and compliance.

4 January 2024, Manila.

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### ELI M. REMOLONA, JR. Chairman (Governor, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas)

### (ORIGINAL SIGNED) (ORIGINAL SIGNED) ### EMILIO B. AQUINO REYNALDO A. REGALADO Member Member (Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission) (Commissioner, Insurance Commission)

Page 2 of 2 