### # CL-2021-036

## Page 1

BAaNGKO SENTRAL NG PILIFINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021-036

To : ALL BANKING INSTITUTIONS

Subject: Credit Consciousness Week 2021

Pursuant to Proclamation No. 568 dated 25 April 1995 (copy attached) designating 24 to 30 April as Credit Consciousness Week, all banking institutions and their branches are enjoined to publish electronic promotional materials through their website, official social media accounts, ad placements, and other similar platforms, consistent with existing physical distancing protocols, during the period.

We urge the banking industry to promote the benefits derived from their active engagement with their clients and community stakeholders. We believe that a strong appreciation of the important role of banks in the lives of our people and our country is vital for economic growth and development.

To unify the campaign for our celebration of Credit Consciousness Week 2021, banks are requested to incorporate the theme, “Sapat na puhunan at responsableng pag-utang, sandigan sa pagbangon ng bayan” and the phrase "Credit Consciousness Week, April 24-30, 2021" in their electronic or online materials during the period.

A prescribed social media card for this campaign may be downloaded at the BSP website (www.bsp.gov.ph)

For more information, banks may contact the BSP Communication Office by

email at bspmail@bsp.gov.ph.

Se ee a ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

23 April 2021

Att.: A/S

## Page 2

### MALACAN

Manila ### BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PROCLAMATION NO. 568

### DECLARING THE PERIOD FROM APRIL 24 TO 30 OF EVERY YEAR AS ### CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK

WHEREAS, PHILIPPINES 2000, the Filipino vision of sound development by the year 2000, recognizes the need for accelerated industrial and agricultural development by gene- rating financial resources through effective financial intermediation and sound lending operations in aid of capital formation; I

WHEREAS, the drive towards the. attainment of the status of a Newly Industrialized Country by -the turn of the century will be effectively boosted if all sectors of --society. are made fully aware of. the vital role that. capital formation and responsible credit: play in the country! s economic . deve~ lopment ;

WHEREAS, to effectively impart this awareness, it. is imperative to institute a continuing campaign that will -in- volve all sectors of society, as well as all levels and instrumentalities. of the government; —~ a

NOW, THEREFORE, I, FIDEL V._RAMOS, President -of. «the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in.me by law,’ ‘do hereby declare the period from April 24 to 30 of every year, as “CREDIT CONSCIOUSNESS WEEK".

For this purpose, the Secretary of Finance, Secretary of Education, Culture and Sport, Secretary of the. Interior and Local Government, Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority, the Governor of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, as well as all heads of Depart- ments, Bureaus, Offices, Agencies, and Instrumentalities of the Government, Local Government Units of all levels, and Government-owned. or. Controlled Corporations are hereby directed to undertake activities in accordance with the spirit of. this Proclamation.

The Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Chamber of Thrift Banks, the Rural Bankers Association of the Philippines, the Financial Executives Institute. of the Philippines, and all members of the mass media, civic and commercial associatiofis...and non-governmental organizations are hereby.. ‘yequested” to extend their full support § and cooperation in this campaign. a

## Page 3

Credit Consciousness Week April 24 to 30 of every year

KX 7 - oe x

2

h Supersedes Proclamation No. 1837, dated March 36, 1979 ; oo °

TN OWL ENESS GHER POR, f fave hereunte ssert omy hand ana

Saused he seab of the Republic of the Phi dj PPLE Ss Ly bag aff iwed Mone an the atv of Mang la, this 25th day of Apr in

Phe vear of Our Lord, maineteen hundred and ninety fave,

———

### PMS LIBRARY

EA a

### PMS LIARARY BCODE007823 