### # CL-2020-055

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR Monetary and Economics Sector

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2020- _ 055 To : ALL AUTHORIZED AGENT BANKS (AABs)

Subject: Use of 11-digit enterprise-wide bank code as part of the number of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)-prescribed Certificate of Inward Remittance (CIR) of Foreign Exchange (FX) Form issued by AABs

Pursuant to Part Il (Specific Instructions) of the “Guide/Instructions for Filling-out the Certificate of Inward Remittance” under Appendix 10.1 of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions (FX Manual), as amended, the CIR number format (CCYY-NNNNNN-BBBBBBBBBBB) is composed of the year of issuance, the series number and the enterprise-wide bank code (11-digits), respectively.

Please be guided that the 11-digit enterprise-wide bank code has a "2-4-2-3" composition wherein the first two (2) digits pertain to the bank kind ("00" for universal/commercial banks and "01" for thrift banks), the next four (4) digits to entity, the next two (2) digits to bank type ("00" for Head Office and “01” for branch of a local bank) and the last three (3) digits to the branch code of the bank ("000" for Head Office and foreign bank branches). Please also note that the previous version of the CIR Form (prior to the issuance of BSP Circular No. 1030 dated 5 February 2019) used a four (4)-digit bank code as part of the CIR number and this pertains to the four (4)-digit entity code cited above. For the three (3)-digit branch code, the BSP provides this when a branch of a local bank is opened.

Inquiries/clarifications on the matter may be sent to the BSP-International Operations Department (IOD) at iod_iog3@bsp.gov.ph.

)

### FRANCISCO G. DAKILA, JR. Deputy Governor

16 November 2020 