### # CL-2021-059

## Page 1

### Y BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CIRCULAR LETTER NO. CL-2021- 059

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFlIs)

Subject : Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) Resolution Nos. TF-41 and TF-42, Series of 2021

Consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution No. 1373, pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, the AMLC issued Resolution Nos. TF-41 and 42 (copies attached) directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Orders (SFO) to take effect immediately against certain identified individuals affiliated with terrorist groups, and the National Democratic Front (NDF), also known as the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), pursuant to their designation as terrorists by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC), in its Resolution Nos. 20' and 212, both dated 23 June 2021, respectively.

Specifically, the AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-41 and TF-42 direct all ### covered persons, among others, to:

]. Freeze without delay the following property or funds, including related accounts: (a) property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subjects of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat; (b) property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subjects of designation; (c) property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subjects of designation; and (d)

1 Designation of individuals affiliated with the local terrorist groups 2 Designation of NDF, also known as NDFP

Page 1 of 2

-* Oe en a - at ow ee’. Oe. ©. 9

## Page 2

property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subjects of designation; and

. Submit to the AMLC: (a) a written return, pursuant to, and containing the details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA); and (b) suspicious transaction report on all previous transactions of the subjects of designations within five (5) days from effectivity of the SFO.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons,

among others, who (a) deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by subjects of designation, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those subjects of designation; or (b) makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the subjects of designation; shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

Copies of the AMLC Resolution Nos. TF-41 and TF-42 may be viewed

and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and strict compliance/implementation. Digitally signed by . ChuchiG. Fonacier Date: 2021.07.23 16:35:22 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

_23 July 2021

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

Republic of the Philippines ### AML@ ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF-41, SERIES OF 2021

The public, covered institutions as defined under the under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Register of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council, consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism- related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued resolution No. TF-41, Series of 2021, directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against (1) Radulan/Radullan Sahiron a.k.a. Commander Putol/ Gagandilan/Magang of the ASG; (2) Hajan Sawadjaan/Hatib Hajan Sawadjaan a.k.a. Pah Hajan; Abdulhajan; Abduhajan of the ASG and affiliated with the Daulah Islamiyah (DI); (3) Furuji Amirin Indama/Furuji Indama a.k.a. Abu Sopek; Abu Dujana; Ustadz Faidz; Ben Dudjanan; Juljama Indama of the ASG and affiliated with the DI; (4) Sansibar Saliddin Bensio/Sansibar Saliddin Bencio a.k.a. Sibar/Sansi of the ASG; (5) Pasil Bayali a.k.a. Kera/Kerah of the ASG and affiliated with the DI; (6) Abdullah Jovel Indanan a.k.a. Guro/Guroh of the ASG and affiliated with the DI; (7) Ibni Acosta/Acosta Ibni Y Ibrahim a.k.a. Abu Tini/Alkaser Albani/Moin/Win of the ASG and affiliated with the Dl; (8) Bensito Quirino Yadah/Bensito Quirino Bakun/Ben Quirino Yadah a.k.a. Ben Tattoo/Ben Yadah of the ASG and affiliated with the DI; (9) Suhud Gaviola Salasim a.k.a. Ben Wagas of the ASG and affiliated with the DI; (10) Hassan Solaiman Indal/Hassal Indal a.k.a. Abu Azam/ Abu Hassan/Assam/Abu Ali of the Turaifie Group and affiliated with the Dl; (11) Hassan Kulaw/Mustapha Kassan Kulaw/Kassan Kulaw a.k.a. Abu Saiden/Abu Zaiden of the Turaifie Group and affiliated with the DI; (12) Norodin Hassan/Nur Hassan a.k.a. Andot Hassan/Andot/Dots/Dot of the Hassan Group and affiliated with the DI; (13) Emarudin Kulaw/Emaruddin Kulaw/Samaruddin Kulaw/Emarudin Kasan/Emarudin Hassan a.k.a. Alpha King/Alpha King Hassan of the Maute Group and affiliated with the Dl; also of the Hassan Group and affiliated with the DI; (14) Jaybee Mastura/Jayvee Mastura a.k.a. Abu Naim/Abu Naem of the Hassan Group and affiliated with the DI; (15) Yusoph Hadji Nassif/Osoph Hadji Nassif/Osop Hadji Nasir a.k.a. Abu Asraf/Abu Arap/Osoph/Osop of the Maute Group and. affiliated with the DI; (16) Mahir Sandab a.k.a. Abu Jihad/Jihad/Lumen/Telmijie of the Maute Group and affiliated with the DI; (17) Solaiman Tudon/Sulaiman Tudon a.k.a. Abu Jihad of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters -Karialan faction; (18) Sukarno Sapal a.k.a. Abubakar Sapal/Zulkarnain Sapal/Sukarno Abubakar Joke/Diok/”CS 52”/Zuk of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters-Karialan faction; (19) Khadafi Abdulatif/Khadaffy Abdulatif/Kadaffy Abdullatip a.k.a. Yusa/”CS 01”/Zero One/Mukayam of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters -Bungos faction; and (20) Kupang Sahak/Kopang Sahak a.k.a. Commander Tarzan/Tarzan/ Tarsan/Bapa Sahak of the Maguid Group and affiliated with the DI, pursuant to their designation as terrorist by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 20 (2021) dated 23 June 2021, and the freezing without delay of ### the following property or funds, including related accounts:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the subject of designation, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 4

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the subject of designation; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the subject of designation;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of ### TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and instrumentalities who

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the individuals designated under Anti-Terrorism Council Resolution No. 20 (2021), including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such designated individuals; or

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to said designated individuals

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered persons are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the designated persons within five (5) days from effectivity of this Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts, are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-41, Series of 2021 and ATC Resolution No. 20 (2021) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance. 19 July 2021 (Original signed)

### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA Executive DirectorAMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2

## Page 5

Republic of the Philippines ### AML@ ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COUNCIL

### NOTICE OF AMLC RESOLUTION NO. TF- 42, SERIES OF 2021

The public, covered institutions as defined under the under Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012 (TFPSA), and all relevant government agencies, including the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority, Register of Deeds, Maritime Industry Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines are hereby informed that the Anti-Money Laundering Council, consistent with the Philippines’ international obligations to comply with binding terrorism-related resolutions, including UNSC Resolution No. 1373 pursuant to Article 41 of the UN Charter, issued resolution No. TF-42, Series of 2021, directing the issuance of Sanctions Freeze Order to take effect immediately against the National Democratic Front (NDF), also known as the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), pursuant to its designation as terrorist by the Anti-Terrorism Council (ATC) Resolution No. 21 (2021) dated 23 June 2021, and the freezing without delay of the following property or funds, ### including related accounts:

a. property or funds that are owned or controlled by the NDF, also known as the NDFP, and is not limited to those that are directly related or can be tied to a particular terrorist act, plot, or threat;

b. property or funds that are wholly or jointly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the NDF, also known as the NDFP;

c. property or funds derived or generated from funds or other assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the NDF, also known as the NDFP; and

d. property or funds of persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the NDF, also known as the NDFP;

All the above covered institutions and relevant government agencies are directed to submit to the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) a written return, pursuant to, and containing details required under, Rule 16.c of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of ### TFPSA.

Any person, whether natural or juridical, including covered persons, private companies, government owned or controlled corporations, and government agencies and instrumentalities who

1. deals directly or indirectly, in any way and by any means, with any property or fund that he knows or has reasonable ground to believe is owned or controlled by the NDF, also known as the NDFP, including funds derived or generated from property or funds owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the NDF, also known as the NDFP; or

Room 507, 5/F, EDPC Building, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel.No.: (+632) 708-70-66; Fax No.: (+632) 708-79-09 ewww.amlc.gov.phesecretariat@amlc.gov.ph

## Page 6

### AMLON =

2. makes available any property or funds, or financial services or other related services to the NDF, also known as the NDFP

shall be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law pursuant to TFPSA.

All covered persons are mandated to submit as Suspicious Transaction Report all previous transactions of the NDF, also known as the NDFP, within five (5) days from effectivity of this Order.

All persons, organizations, associations or groups of persons whose property or funds are frozen, including related accounts are hereby informed that they may avail of the remedies under Republic Act No. 11479, otherwise known as Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, and its Implementing Rules and Regulations and under the TFPSA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations.

A copy of the AMLC Resolution No. TF-42, Series of 2021 and ATC Resolution No. 21 (2021) may be viewed and downloaded from the AMLC website: www.amlc.gov.ph.

For information and compliance. 19 July 2021. (Original signed) ### MEL GEORGIE B. RACELA

Executive Director AMLC Secretariat

Page 2 of 2 