### # M-2021-071

## Page 1

### 2) BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR ### MEMORANDUM NO. M - 2021-071 Series of 2021

To : All Direct Clearing Participants of InstaPay and PESONet Automated Clearing Houses (ACHs)

Subject: Moratorium on the Increase in Transfer Fee for InstaPay and PESONet Transactions

Pursuant to the National Payment Systerns Act and aligned with the country’s aim to spur economic activity by promoting faster settlement via digital payments, the Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1819 dated 23 December 2021, approved the moratorium on the increase in transfer fees for tnstaPay and PESONet transactions effective immediately.

Encouraged by the growth of digital payments from only 1% in 2013 to over 20% in 2020, the volume of retai] payments in the country is aimed to be fifty percent (50%) digital by 2023. The said moratorium is expected to not only help the economy but also sustaln the momentum In the use of digital payments. The [lfting of the moratorlurn shall be reviewed by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) upon Issuance of pricing standard/guidelines or once the volume of digital payments reaches forty percent (40%) of the total retail payments in the country, whichever is earlier.

Accordingly, PESONet and InstaPay participants are directed, from date of this memorandum, to maintain the transfer fees for person-to-person fund transfers via InstaPay and PESONct. The BSP-suporvised financial institutions (BSFls) shall continue to disclose their fees, including the waiver and reduction in fees, pursuant to Memorandum No. M-2018-013 dated 28 March 2018 on the Disclosure of Fees on Electronic Payments pursuant to Circular No. 980, Relevant transfer fee that is currently waived may only be restored up to the amount of fee reported to the BSP prior to the waiver. For InstaPay and PESONet BSFI- participants that do not currently impose transfer fees, to submit for prior BSP approval, any fee to be imposed on its customers for initiating fund transfers via InstaPay and PESONet. For BSFis which have yet to offer InstaPay and PESONet, the initial fees shall be reported to the BSP’s Payment System Oversight Department (PSOD) at least sixty (60) days prior to the date of planned implementation.

The Philippine Payments Management, Inc., as the BSP-accredited payrnernt system management body (PSMB), shall monitor compliance of its members with this Memorandum and report to PSOD any non-compliance of its member/s within the next banking day from the date of notice.

§ Digitally signed by Benjamin E.

: , Diokn For strict compliance. Cc Cf. C # Deter 2021.12.28 17224811 49800" BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO ate 8 AP

Governor .

. .

