### # M-2024-002

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024- 992

To : ALL REGULATORY SANDBOX APPLICANTS/PROPONENTS

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of Regulatory Sandbox Applications and Communications through the BSP Regulatory Sandbox Mail-in Account

Pursuant to Circular No. 1153 on the Regulatory Sandbox Framework dated OS September 2022, all regulatory sandbox applications, inquiries, and other correspondences shali observe the following guidelines on the submission of applications and communications through the BSP Regulatory Sandbox Mail-in ### Account:

1. Effective 15 January 2024, all applications and communications relative to the Regulatory Sandbox shail be transmitted electronically to the Sandbox Oversight

Team (SOT) through the email address: bspregulatorysandbox@bsp.gov.ph.

2. Applicants shall strictly apply the prescribed format for the subject line, as ### follows:

RSBX_APPLICATION_<APPLICANT Name>_<application date (DDMMMYYYY)> Example: RSBX_APPLICATION_XYZ, Inc._37 Jan 2024 ### 3. For those with ongoing applications, use the following subject format:

RSBX_<APPLICATION NO. (to be provided by the SOT)>_SHORT DESCRIPTION ### OF SUBJECT MATTER

Example: RSBX_202403-O0001_Submission of Status Report ### 4. For other inquiries/clarifications, the subject format below should be followed:

### RSBX_INQUIRY_<ENTITY NAME>_<SHORT DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF ### INQUIRY/CLARIFICATION>

Example: RSBX_INQUIRY_XYZ, Inc.__Clarification on Testing Period

5. Failure to use the prescribed subject line format will result in the failure of delivery of the email to the SOT.

6. Non-receipt of an acknowledgement email from the bspregulatorysandbox@bsp.gov.ph account within the day shall mean failure of delivery of the message.

7. The auto-generated reply/notice from the

account shall be considered as duly received by the BSFI absent notification from the BSP system of the failure of delivery.

Page l of 2

e ee *

## Page 2

For immediate implementation and guidance.

### ELIM. REMOLO R. Governor

4 January 2024

Subject: Guidelines on the Submission of Regulatory Sandbox Applications and Communications through the BSP Regulatory Sandbox Mail-in Account

Page 2 of 2

