### # M-2021-044

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-o44

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL THRIFT BANKS (TBs)

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of Schedules 8 and 13 of FX Form 1

Pursuant to BSP Circular No. 1120 dated 07 June 2021 on the Amendments to Regulations on the Open Foreign Exchange Position of Banks, the following guidelines shall be observed by TBs for the monthly submission of Schedules 8 and 13 of FX Form 1 beginning ### reference month 31 August 2021:

1. The prescribed File Structure and Valid Values needed for the Creation of Report CSV File of Schedules 8 and 13 of FX Form 1 can be downloaded from www.bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_ templates or may _ be requested directly from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through fed@bsp.gov.ph. In requesting the said files, TBs shall follow the prescribed format as the subject: [Request] Schedules 8 and 13 File Structure.

2. Schedules 8 and 13 of FX Form 1 shall be electronically submitted within the prescribed deadline to fed@bsp.gov.ph ### using the required format for the subject, as illustrated below:

To : fed@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FXS813<space><BSFI Name>,<space> <Reference Period>

### For example:

To : fed@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FXS813 Bank A, 31 August 2021

Page 1 of 2

## Page 2

3. The following prescribed file name and file format shall be used ### in submitting the schedules:

File Valid Filename and Format Schedules 8 and 13 of FX FEDFX.csv Form 1

4. Pursuant to BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017, banks shall use only e-mail addresses officially registered with the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) in electronically submitting reports. The same registered e-mail addresses shall be used by the DSA in acknowledging the submitted reports and transmitting the corresponding validation results.

5. TBs that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the CSV File in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed ### deadline to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) 11** Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

6. Report submissions that do not conform with the above prescribed procedures shall not be accepted and will be considered non-compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to applicable penalties for late and/or erroneous submission of Schedules 8 and 13 of FX Form 1 under Section 103 of the Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by DG Chuchi G. Fonacier on 11 August 2021

### CHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

11 August 2021

Page 2 of 2 