### # M-2024-025

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024-025

To : ALL NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WITHOUT QUASI- ### BANKING FUNCTION, ELECTRONIC MONEY ISSUERS - ### OTHERS, OFFSHORE BANKING UNITS, AND REPRESENTATIVE ### OFFICES OF FOREIGN BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Registration of Official E-mail Addresses for Electronic Transmission of Official Correspondences from the BSP-Financial Supervision Sector (BSP-FSS) and Electronic Submission of Prescribed Reports to the BSP-FSS Through the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA)

Pursuant to the Bangko Sentral’s initiative in ensuring that any form of communication with the BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) are secured and reports are received from authorized sender, the following guidelines shall be observed in the registration of e-mail addresses of all Non- Bank Financial Institutions without quasi-banking functions (NBFIs), Electronic Money Issuers-Others (EMI-Others), Offshore Banking Units (OBUs), and Representative Offices (ROs) of Foreign Banks. Only the registered e-mail addresses shall be used in the electronic transmission of official notices and correspondences by the BSP-FSS and in the electronic submission of its prescribed reports to BSP-FSS through the DSA.

A. E-mail Registration Procedures

1. Covered BSFIs are required to submit on or before 02 September 2024 an accomplished Registration Form (RF) designating the official e-mail addresses of the authorized officials signed and approved by the President of the BSFI or officer of equivalent rank. The prescribed RF (in Excel) can be downloaded from https:/Awww.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting_ templates or requested directly from the DSA through dsareports@bsp.gov.ph using the following syntax for subject line: [REQUEST] <Report Name> Template. (Example: [REQUEST] RF Template).

2. The scanned copy of the signed RF in Portable Document Format (PDF) together with the accomplished excel file of the RF shall be transmitted to the prescribed e-mail address, sdcnbfi-reportrf@bsp.gov.ph.

### using the required e-mail subject format as follows:

RF<space><BSFI Name>,<space><Date of President or officer of equivalent rank Approval in dd Month yyyy>

For Example,

To : sdcnbfi-reportrf@bsp.gov.ph Subject : RF ABC NonBank Inc, O1 July 2024

## Page 2

3. For receiving of official notices and correspondences from the BSP, a covered BSFI can officially register a maximum of four (4) e-mail addresses, one of which should belong to the President of the BSFI or officer of equivalent rank and the other to the Compliance Officer (CO). The remaining two (2) e-mail addresses should belong to other authorized officials with a rank not lower than that of the CO.

4. For report submission purposes, a covered BSFI can officially register a maximum of four (4) e-mail addresses. One of the four e-mail accounts shall belong to the CO.

5. Each officially designated e-mail address must be registered to only one official. In no case shall there be two or more registered officials for a single registered e-mail address.

6. Subsequent changes in the official registry can be facilitated by submitting an updated RF in accordance with the above procedures. The updated RF shall constitute the NBFls, EMl-Others, OBUs, and ROs’ updated list of registered e-mail addresses and designated officials and shall supersede the previously submitted RF.

B. Important Reminders

1. NBFlis, EMI-Others, OBUs, and ROs should develop and implement its own internal policy and system to ensure accountability and responsible use of the registered e-mail addresses. It should likewise ensure that the registered e-mail addresses and responsible officials remain current and updated.

2. Only electronic submissions of reports originating from officially registered e-mail address/es of the NBFls, EMl-Others, OBUs, and ROs shall be recognized and accepted by the DSA. The same registered e-mail address/es shall be used by the DSA in electronically acknowledging the submitted report and transmitting the corresponding validation results. Submission of reports through an unregistered e-mail address shall be automatically rejected and the report shall be considered not submitted.

3. Official notices and correspondences transmitted by the BSP-FSS via e-mail will be sent only to officially registered e-mail addresses of an NBFI, EMlI-Others, OBU, and RO.

4. BSP-FSS shall presume that e-mails released to the officially registered e-mail address/es are duly received by the NBFls, EMl-Others, OBUs, and ROs absent any notification from the Bangko Sentral system on failure of

delivery. Digitally signed by _Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2024.08.07 22:14:24 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

For compliance.

O07 August 2024

Page 2 of 2

Classification: GENERAL 