### # M-2022-010

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022- O10.

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : UNIVERSAL AND COMMERCIAL BANKS, INCLUDING ### THEIR SUBSIDIARY AND AFFILIATE BANKS, QUASI- ### BANKS, TRUST CORPORATIONS, NON-BANK ### FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WITH TRUST AUTHORITY, ### OTHER NON-BANK_ FINANCIAL _ INSTITUTIONS; ### STAND-ALONE BANKS, QUASI-BANKS, NON-BANK ### FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WITH TRUST AUTHORITY ### AND TRUST CORPORATIONS

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of Annual Report of ALL Interlocking Positions of its Directors and Officers (ARIPDO)

Pursuant to Section 137' of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and Sections 136-Q?, 112-N? and 120-T* of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) on Interlocking Directorships and/or Officerships, as amended by Circular No. 1129 dated 12 November 2021, Universal and Commercial (UKBs), including their subsidiary and affiliate BSP Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs), and stand-alone Islamic Banks (IBs), Thrift Banks (TBs), Rural Banks (RBs), Cooperative Banks (CBs), Digital Banks (DBs), QBs, and NBFls with TA and TCs shall observe the following guidelines in the electronic submission of ### the ARIPDO beginning 31 December 2021 report:

A. Submission Guidelines

1. UKBs, including their subsidiary and affiliate BSFls, and stand- alone IBs, TBs, RBs, CBs, DBs, QBs, and NBFls with TA and TCs shall follow the General Instructions (G/)and Detailed Guide (DG) in accomplishing the AR/PDO Data Entry Template (DET) These files

1 Confirmation of the election/appointment of Directors/Officers; Biodata of Directors and

Officers interlocking all positions of its Directors and Officers; Rules of procedures on administrative cases involving Directors and Officer of BSFls

2 Ibid.

3 Interlocking Directorships and/or Officerships

4 Interlocking Directorship/Officership

5 Banks, Quasi-Banks (QBs), Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs) with Trust Authority (TA),

_ Trust Corporations (TCs), other NBFls

## Page 2

can be downloaded from www. bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates or may be directly requested from the BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) though DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph. In requesting for the said DET, Gl and DG, covered institutions shall follow the prescribed format as the subject: [REQUEST] ARIPDO Data Entry Template, General Instructions and Detailed Guide.

Covered BSFls shall individually submit the accomplished DET within 20 banking days after end of reference year to the prescribed email address, DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph, using the required format ### for the subject line as follows:

ARIPDO<space><Name of BSFI><space><Reference Date> ### For example:

To : DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph Subject : ARIPDO <ABC Bank>, 31 December 2021

The prescribed file name and format shall be used in submitting the DET, ARIPDO-<BSFI Acronym>.xls.

For the 31 December 2021 ARIPDO report, submission deadline has been extended to 30 April 2022 pursuant to Memorandum No. M- 2022-006 dated 21 January 2022 on Operational Relief on the Submission of Prudential Reports to the BSP-Financial Supervision Sector. Henceforth, regular submission shall resume for reports with reference date ending 31 December 2022 in accordance with prescribed timelines.

Only electronic submission originating from officially registered email address/es of the covered BSFls pursuant to Memorandum No. 2017-028 shall be recognized and accepted by the DSA. The acknowledgement receipt for the submitted report will be sent to the same registered email address/es.

Covered BSFls that do not have interlocking positions of its Directors and Officers as of reference date shall still be required to submit the ARIPDO DET to the above-mentioned DSA email address using the prescribed format.

Hard copy submission shall no longer be accepted. Covered BSFls that are unable to transmit via email may submit the accomplished DET in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed deadline ### addressed to:

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

The Department Head

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

8. Queries regarding the ARIPDO, its related regulations and guidelines shall be sent via e-mail to DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph following the prescribed format as the subject, [INQUIRY] ARIPDO.

B. Important Reminders ### A. The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission:

i. Failure to use the correct template; ii. Failure to use an officially registered email address; iii. Transmitting to a wrong email address; iv. Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reference period; v. Failure to use the prescribed filename; and vi. Failure to correct file format.

B. Report submissions that do not conform with the above prescribed guidelines shall not be accepted and shall be considered non-compliant with the BSP reporting requirements as prescribed under Section 171 of the MORB and Sections 172-Q, 134-T, and 143-N of the MORNBFI, subject to applicable penalties for delayed, erroneous, and/or unsubmitted reporting of ARIPDO.

For compliance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.02.11 14:04:52 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

11 February 2022

Page 3 of 3 