### # M-2022-009

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022-009

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL BANKS AND NON-BANKS WITH QUASI BANKING FUNCTIONS (NBQBs)

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of DDA Reconciliation Statement Report through the BSP Financial Institution Portal (FI Portal)

Pursuant to Circular 1096 dated 16 September 2020 on the Semestral Submission of Reconciliation Statement by Banks/Quasi Banks on their Demand Deposit Account maintained with the Bangko Sentral Ng Pilipinas and Memorandum No. M-2022-006 dated 21 January 2022 on Regulatory relief on the submission of prudential reports to the Financial Supervision Sector (FSS) of the BSP, all banks/quasi-banks shall observe the following guidelines in the electronic submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement beginning ### 31 December 2021 report:

Submission Guidelines

1. All Banks and NBQBs shall use the _ prescribed DDA Reconciliation Statement Data Entry Template (DET) Control Prooflist (CP) and User Guide, which can be downloaded from www. bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates or may be directly requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph. I\n requesting the said template, covered institutions shall follow the prescribed format as the subject: [REQUEST] DDA _ Reconciliation Statement Template.

2. For semester ending 31 December 2021, all Banks and NBQBs shall submit the DDA Reconciliation Statement report through the FI Portal on or before 28 February 2022. Subsequent reports will be due for submission within fifteen (15) banking days from the end of reference semester.

## Page 2

3. The DET and CP shall be submitted through the FI Portal using the prescribed file naming

### extension/format, as identified below:

convention and file

File File Name File extension/ Format DET DDA Xls Control Prooflist I DDA-Control Prooflist pdf

4. Banks and NBQBs that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the DET and CP in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the ### prescribed deadline addressed to:

The Department Head

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate

1004 Manila

5. Report submissions should continue to comply with existing BSP reporting standards. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted, subjected to validation and applicable penalties for reporting

violations.

6. Queries regarding the DDA Reconciliation Statement Report, its related regulations and guidelines shall be sent via e-mail to DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph following the prescribed format as the subject, [INQUIRY] DDA_Recon.

For compliance.

O07 February 2022

Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.02.07

10:15:46 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

Page 2 of 2 