### # M-2021-009

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-009

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of the Consolidated List of Stockholders and their Stockholdings (CLSS)

Pursuant to Section 173 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) prescribing the submission of CLSS and to minimize the need to submit in hardcopy during this time of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the following guidelines are being issued to facilitate the electronic submission of the said report beginning cut-off 31 December 2020.

1. Submission Procedures

a. The CLSS shall be submitted to the Bangko Sentral within the prescribed ### deadlines, as follows:

Industry Prescribed Deadline Universal/Commercial Banks 12th banking day after end of and Thrift Banks calendar year Rural Banks 30th banking day after end of

calendar year All Banks 12th banking day after end of reference quarter, if with changes

If the 30th or the 12th banking day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Holiday, or on a day which banking operations of the BSP is suspended, the report shall be due on following banking day.

b. Banks shall electronically submit to the BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) beginning cut-off 31 December 2020, the CLSS in Portable Document Format (PDF) duly signed by the Bank’s authorized official and the corresponding Excel File of the prescribed Data Entry Template (DET) which can be downloaded from http://www. bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting_templates.

c. For publicly listed Banks, a Certification under oath by the Corporate Secretary of its list of ultimate beneficial owners of bank shares held in the name of the Philippine Central Depository (PCD) Nominee Corporation shall be submitted in PDF in addition to the requirements in Item b, as required under Section 122 of the MORB.

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines « (632) 708-7701 « www.bsp.gov.ph e bsomail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

d. The PDF of the CLSS-DET and its corresponding Excel File, and if applicable, the Certification on ultimate beneficial owners, shall be electronically ### transmitted to the prescribed email addresses as follows:

Industry Designated Email-address Universal/Commercial Banks dsakb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph Thrift Banks dsatb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph Rural Banks dsarb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph

### using the required format for the subject, as follows:

CLSS<space><Name of Bank>,<space><Reference Period in dd month name ccyy>

For Example,

To : dsakb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph Subject : CLSS <ABC Bank>, 31 December 2020

### e. Banks shall use the following prescribed file names and file format:

File File Name File Format Data Entry Template CLSS xis Data Entry Template CLSS .pdf Certification PCD .pdf

f. Only electronic submissions originating from officially registered email address/es of the Bank pursuant to Memorandum No. 2017-028 shall be recognized and accepted by the DSA. The acknowledgment receipt for the submitted report will be sent to the same registered email address/es.

g. Hard copy submission shall no longer be accepted. Banks that are unable to transmit via email may submit the prescribed report in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within ### the prescribed deadline addressed to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

11th Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

2. Important Reminders

a. For 31 December 2020 report, Banks shall submit the complete list of its Stockholders and their Stockholdings to the BSP-DSA following the above submission procedures. Subsequent updates whether there are changes or no changes in the said list shall begin with 31 March 2021 report.

### b. The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission, among others:

i. Failure to use the correct/updated templates

ii. Failure to use an officially registered email address

iii. Transmitting to the wrong email address

iv. Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date v. Failure to use the prescribed filenames

vi. Failure to the correct file format

c. Only one (1) DET in Excel File and its corresponding signed PDF and, if applicable, the Certification, shall be submitted for each applicable reporting period within the prescribed deadline. Submissions containing more than one (1) DET, one (1) PDF and one (1) certification, as applicable, shall automatically be rejected by the system.

d. Report submissions that do not conform with the above prescribed procedures shall not be accepted and will be considered non-compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to applicable penalties for late and/or erroneous submission of CLSS.

For compliance. - Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.01.19 20:19:18 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

19 January 2021

Page 3 of 3 