### # M-2023-004

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2023-004

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Submission of Prudential Reports Using Extensible Mark-up Language (XML) format through Application Programming Interface (API)

BSP Memorandum No. M-2021-052 dated 6 October 2021 informs that the BSP has adopted initiatives to efficiently gather and process information from BSP supervised financial institutions (BSFIs), which include the migration to the Application Programming Interface (API)-based prudential report submission.

Memorandum No. M-2021-052 provides information on the general requirements to migrate to APl-based submission and the expectation that banks should complete the requirements under Items Ill (Minimum = Technical Requirements) and IV (Skill Sets Required) of the said issuance within six (6) months from the start of development. These requirements include two major activities as ### follows:

1. Connection to the BSP system and submission of the required report along with the digital certificate to identify the sender; and

2. Compliance of the XML report format with the BSP reporting standards that include adherence to the XSD (XML Schema Design) and the corresponding validation rules.

In this respect, banks are enjoined to complete the foregoing requirements in preparation for the live implementation of the API-based submission of prudential ### reports following the schedule below (Please see Annex A for details):

1. Parallel run of the new FRPv15, which shall be used for the API based submission shall cover the March 2023 quarter-end reports and the April and May 2023 month-end reports. The FRPv15 shall be submitted within 20 (for solo basis) and 35 (for consolidated basis) banking days from end of the reference period, as applicable.

2. The existing FRPv14.5 and covered FRP-related reports (Annex B) being submitted through the Financial Institutions Portal (Fl Portal)/Email submission pursuant to existing submission guidelines shall continue to be considered as the official submission of banks for the March 2023 quarter-end and the April and May 2023 month-end reports.

3. The Live submission! of the FRPv15 shall start with the June 2023 quarter-end and July 2023 month-end reports. The FRPv14.5 and covered FRP-related reports shall no longer be submitted beginning the said periods.

4. Banks may use the XML Converter Facility of the BSP under the BSP Relationship

Management System - Integral Financial Supervision System (BRMS-IFSS) web ### portal for the submission of the FRPv15 subject to the following conditions:

1 Separate submission guidelines will be issued to formalize the live implementation.

## Page 2

a. Universal/Commercial banks (UKBs) and Digital Banks (DBs) and their subsidiary thrift and rural/cooperative banks may use the converter facility during the parallel run of the FRPv15. Beginning with the live implementation of the FRPv15 reports for the reporting period ending 30 June 2023, the BSP XML Converter Facility will no longer be available to U/KBs and DBs and their subsidiary thrift and rural/cooperative banks and, as such, they shall use their own XML facility and shall submit the same via the API facility.

b. The submission of the generated XML report using machine-to-machine modality by UKBs, DBs, and their subsidiary banks for both the parallel run and live implementation shall be done using the bank’s own process as coordinated with the BSP or via the approach introduced by the BSP using Postman protocol.

5. Other thrift/rural/cooperative banks may use the BSP XML Converter and submit their XML reports via Web Auxiliary facility (BSP Relationship Management System or BRMS) provided by the BSP during the parallel run and live implementation until further notice.

6. Any changes to the abovementioned schedule or other related matters shall be communicated accordingly.

For guidance and compliance.

Digitally signed by DG Chuchi G. Fonacier o 20 February 2023

### CH4CHI G. FONACIER eputy Governor

20 February 2023

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

### API-XML Timelines:

Annex A

Quarterly Monthly Quarterly Industry 31-Mar-23 30-Apr-23 and 31-May-23. 30-Jun-23 FRPv14.5 FRPv15 FRPv14.5 FRPv15 FRPv14.5 FRPv15 Live Parallel Live Parallel . UKBs V . ; . ; Dropped Live (via Fl Portal) (via API) (via Fl Portal) (via API) Live Parallel Live Parallel . DBs V . . . . Dropped Live (via Fl Portal) (via API) (via Fl Portal) (via API) Live Parallel Live Parallel . TBs? . . . . Dropped Live (via Fl Portal) (via API) (via Fl Portal) (via API) Live Parallel RCBs 7/ N/A N/A Dropped Live (via Fl Portal) (via API) / / PP ### Deadline of Submission: Solo Based on prescribed I 20 banking days from Based on prescribed 20 banking days from N/A Separate Reports submission deadline I end of reference period I submission deadline I end of reference period su brrission . . . idelines Consolidated I Based on prescribed 35 banking days from guide Reports submission deadline I end of reference period N/A N/A N/A will be issued

1/ The XML Converter for UKBs and DBs will only be allowed for use up to 30 June 2023.

2/ Other TBs and RCBs may use the XML converter until further notice.

## Page 4

Annex B

List of existing FRPv14.5 and covered FRP-related reports being submitted through the Financial Institutions Portal (Fl Portal)/Email submission pursuant to existing ### submission guidelines:

### WO ONAN PWN =

14. 15.

16. 17. 18.

Financial Reporting Package (FRP)

Basel 1.5 Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) Report (for stand-alone TBs and RCBs) Basel Ill Capital Adequacy Report

Basel Ill Leverage Ratio (BLR) Report

Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) Report

Basel Ill Report on Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)

Expanded Report on Real Estate Exposures

Financial Reporting Package for Trust Institutions (FRPTI)

Income Statement on Retail Microfinance Operations (MIS) and Report on Microfinance Products (MBS)

. Minimum Liquidity Ratio (MLR) for stand-alone TBs, RCBs and NBQBs

Published Balance Sheet (PBS)

. Report of Selected Branch Accounts (BRANCH) . Report on Compliance with Mandatory Credit Allocation Required Under RA

6977 (as Amended by RA Nos. 8289 and 9501) (MSME)

Report on Cross-Border Financial Positions (RCBP)

Report on Electronic Money Transactions (applicable to Electronic Money Issuers) (E-Money)

Report on Project Finance Exposures (RPFE)

Report on Repurchase Agreements of Banks/ Quasi-Banks (REPO Report) Stress Testing Reports Covering Credit and Market Risks (STRESS TEST) 