### # M-2024-041

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

MEMORANDUM No. M-2024-041

To ALL BANKS AND THEIR SUBSIDIARY/AFFILIATE FINANCING AND LEASING ### COMPANIES, BSP SUPERVISED NON-BANK GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ### INSTITUTIONS, FINANCING/LEASING COMPANIES WITH QUASI-BANKING ### LICENSE THAT ARE NOT SUBSIDIARIES OF BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of the Standard Business Loan Application

Form (SBLAF) Reports

Pursuant to BSP Circular No. 1156 dated 30 September 2022 on the Guidelines on the

Adoption of the SBLAF, all covered entities (CEs)! shall adhere to the following submission ### guidelines of the SBLAF reports:

The SBLAF reports shall be submitted quarterly and annually. Live submissions of SBLAF quarterly reports shall commence from the quarter-ended March 2025 while SBLAF annual reports shall commence from end-December 2025 covering the full 2025 SBLAF data. These SBLAF reports shall be electronically submitted within fifteen (15) banking days from the end of the reference period.

The Extensible Mark-up Language (XML) Schema Definition (XSD) and Control Prooflist (CP) can be downloaded from the Report Details module of the Prudential Reporting Innovation and Monitoring Engine (PRIME) under the BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS), which can be accessed at https:/brms.bsp.gov.ph, using the latest versions of web browser such as Microsoft Edge, Firefox, and Google Chrome.

The generated XML, together with the scanned CP, duly signed by the authorized officials of the reporting CEs, shall be submitted through PRIME facility (i.e., machine- to-machine modality, BRMS, as applicable), in accordance with the following ### specifications:

Report Code Files for Submission File extension/ Format SBLAF Report in XML SBLAF Control Prooflist CP in PDF

1 These include banks and their subsidiary/affiliate financing and leasing companies, government non-bank financial institutions, and financing/leasing companies with quasi-banking license that are not subsidiaries of

banks.

## Page 2

For Banks CEs

4.

Detailed guidelines on the implementation of the Application Programming Interface (API)-based submission or PRIME are provided in Memorandum No. M-2023-022 dated 20 July 2023.

For Non-Bank CEs

Non-Bank CEs shall accomplish the updated registration form as prescribed under Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017 for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs) with Quasi-Banking Function; and Memorandum No. M-2024-025 dated 07 August 2024 for NBFls without Quasi-Banking Function and shall identify a maximum of two (2) authorized officers who will be registered to PRIME under the BRMS.

Memorandum No. M-2021-052 dated 06 October 2021 provides information on the general requirements to migrate to APl-based submission. Non-Bank CEs are enjoined to complete the foregoing requirements in preparation for the live implementation of SBLAF report submission.

In generating their XML reports, Non-Bank CEs may use either their own XML converter facility or BSP XML converter facility, which is made available in the PRIME under the BRMS.

Non-Bank CEs shall submit their generated XML report through PRIME. In case submission via machine-to-machine is not yet available, Non-Bank CEs may use the BRMS until further notice.

Other Submission Guidelines

9.

Report submissions should continue to comply with existing BSP reporting standards. Only files prescribed by the BSP for the report will be accepted and validated, subject to applicable sanctions for reporting violations as provided under Sections 171 /172-Q/143-N of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB)/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBEFI).

. On the “average number of banking days to process” in the SBLAF reporting

templates, if no data is available for a reporting period, all CEs shall indicate “NA’; otherwise, the values should be greater than zero.

BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) not classified as CEs under Circular No. 1156 are not mandated to submit SBLAF reports. However, should these BSFls extend covered loan application? as defined under the Circular, they will be required to submit the requisite SBLAF reports as stipulated in this Memorandum and to comply with the provisions of BSP Circular No. 1156.

2 Criteria of covered loan applications under BSP Circular 1156 are as follows: (1) Applicant-borrower is classified as an MSME or startup and natural person proposing to do business; (2) The purpose of the loan is to finance business operations and/or capital expenditure; and (3) That the loan is either secured or unsecured.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

12. Queries regarding the SBLAF Report, its related regulations, and guidelines should be sent via e-mail to financialinclusion@bsp.gov.ph following the prescribed format in the subject line: [INQUIRY] SBLAF Report.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2024.12.16

15:31:11 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

16 December 2024

Page 3 of 3 