### # M-2021-042

## Page 1

To

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-042

All Concerned Banks

Subject : Extension of Temporary Measures Implemented in the

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas’ (BSP) Rediscounting Facility

The Monetary Board (MB), in its Resolution No. 976 dated 29 July 2021,

approved the extension of the temporary measures implemented in the BSP’s rediscounting facility until 31 December 2021, subject to further extension as may ### be approved by the MB, as follows:

1.

Reduction of the term spread on Peso rediscounting loans to zero, thereby equating the Peso rediscount rate to the BSP’s Overnight Lending Rate, regardless of maturity (i.e. 1 to 180 days);

Reduction of the term spread on rediscounting loans under the Exporters’ Dollar and Yen Rediscount Facility (EDYRF), thereby reducing the applicable United States Dollar (USD) and Japanese Yen (JPY) rediscount rates to the 90-day London Interbank Offered Rates, or in their absence, an applicable benchmark rate such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, plus 200 basis points, regardless of maturity (i.e. 1 to 360 days); and

Acceptance for rediscounting with the BSP under the EDYRF of the USD- and JPY-denominated credit instruments related to enterprises allowed to operate during the enhanced community quarantine of Luzon, as provided in the Department of Trade and Industry Memorandum Circular No. 20-08, except for loans to banks and capital markets; Provided, that these credits are booked under the regular banking unit of the rediscounting bank and are compliant with the requirements on Eligible papers and collaterals under Section 282 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks; Provided, further, that the said USD- and JPY-denominated credits pertain only to those end-user borrowers operating during the enhanced community quarantine.

In this regard, banks are expected to comply with the availment procedures

set forth under Memorandum Nos. M-2020-016 dated 31 March 2020, M-2020-024 dated 08 April 2020 and M-2020-051 dated 17 June 2020.

For strict compliance.

Co. e ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

30 July 2021

### ele eae: 