### # M-2023-022

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2023-022

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of Prudential Reports using Extensible Mark-up Language Format Through’ the Application Programming Interface

Further to BSP Memorandum No. M-2023-004 dated 20 February 2023, the following guidelines shall be observed relative to the submission of prudential reports using the Extensible Mark-up Language (XML) format through the Application Programming Interface (API) beginning reference period 30 June 2023 ### reports:

1. Universal/Commercial Banks (UKBs) and their subsidiary Thrift (TBs) and Rural/Cooperative Banks (RCBs) as well as Digital Banks (DGBs) shall submit their XML report which they generated on their own! through machine-to-machine modality using the bank’s chosen process as coordinated with the BSP.

2. Stand-alone TBs and RCBs may use the Integral Financial Supervision System (IFSS) Submission Portal under the BSP _ Relationship Management System (BRMS) of the BSP as mentioned in Section 3 until further notice.

3. The IFSS Submission Portal can be accessed at https://brms.bsp.gov.ph using the latest version of web browsers such as Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.

4. Stand-alone TBs and RCBs that opted to submit the generated XML report through machine-to-machine modality using the bank’s own process as coordinated with the BSP similar to Section 1 above or via the approach introduced by the BSP using Postman protocol shall submit an updated User Registration Form (URF), which can be requested from their respective Department of Supervisory Analytics Account Officer. The accomplished URF shall be submitted to brms_urf@bsp.gov.ph using the following prescribed subject format and file naming ### convention:

1 For UKBs and DGBs, extended use of the converter facility which is available in the IFSS Submission Portal under the BRMS as described in above sections may be allowed on a case- to-case basis. For subsidiary TBs/RCBs, access to the converter facility shall continue to be available until further notice.

## Page 2

Subject: URF<space><Bank Name> Filename: URF_<Bank Name>.pdf

For example,

To: brms_urf@bsp.gov.ph Subject: URF Bank A

URF Filename: URF_Bank A.pdf

5. The live implementation of the API beginning reference period ### 30 June 2023 shall cover the following reports:

Report Title

Financial Reporting Package (FRP)

Basel 1.5 Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) Report

Basel III Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) Report

Basel III Leverage Ratio (BLR) Report

Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) Report

Basel III Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) Report

Expanded Report on Real Estate Exposures (ERREE)

Financial Reporting Package for Trust Institutions (FRPTI)

Income Statement on Retail Microfinance Operations (MIS) and Report on Microfinance Products (MBS)

Minimum Liquidity Ratio (MLR) Report

Report of Selected Branch Accounts (BRANCH)

Report on Compliance with Mandatory Credit Allocation Required Under R.A. 6977 (as Amended by R.A. Nos. 8289 and 9501) (MSME Compliance Report)

Report on Cross-Border Financial Positions (RCBP)

Report on Electronic Money Transactions (applicable to Electronic Money Issuers) (E-Money)

Report on Project Finance Exposures (RPFE)

Report on Repurchase Agreements of Banks/ Quasi-Banks (REPO Report)

Stress Testing Reports Covering Credit and Market Risks (STRESS TEST)

The XML submitted shall be considered the official submission of the bank, thus FI Portal and electronic mail submissions for the mentioned reports and reference period shall be discontinued.

6. The generated XML, together with the scanned Control Prooflist (CP), and Certification Form (CF) duly signed by the authorized officials of the reporting banks shall be electronically submitted to the BSP in ### accordance with the following specifications:

Covered Submission .

Report Institutions Frequency Deadline File Format and FRP-Related . np Monthly y XML and CP- Reports (FRP_S) with Circular No. reference Solo in PDE

= 688 period

2 Templates can be downloaded from the IFSS Submission Portal under Report details.

Page 2 of 3

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 3

Covered Submission . Report Institutions Frequency Deadline File Format FRP and FRP- 15 BD after Report in Related Reports - Ss eee. Monthly reference XML and CP- Solo Basis (FRP) period Solo in PDF FRP and FRP- Related Reports - UKBs and TBs 30 BD after Report in Consolidated with subsidiary Quarterly reference XML and CP- Basis banks period Conso in PDF (FRP_Conso) MLR Stand-alone TBs Monthl 15 BD after CF-Solo in Certification® and RCBs y : PDF period after reference CF-Basis* in LCR and NSFR UKBs and Monthl eriod for solo PDF Certifications® subsidiary banks y P (submitted ### and conso, . : ; in one file) respectively

7. A grace period for non-imposition of penalties for reporting violation shall also be observed for the first two reporting periods beginning live implementation. The same shall apply for new or enhanced reports

moving forward.

8. Banks shall be advised accordingly of actions to take in case of temporary inaccessibility of the BRMS.

For guidance and compliance.

20 July 2023

Digitally signed by

. Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2023.07.20 10:53:03 +08'00"

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

3 In the event that the Liquidity ratios fall below the minimum requirement three (3) banking/business days within any two-week rolling calendar period, the submission procedure as stated under Circular Nos. 996 and 1007 dated 8 February and 6 June 2018, respectively, shall remain in effect. “ Whichever is applicable [i.e., solo/conso].

Classification: GENERAL

Page 3 of 3

