### # M-2021-045

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M - 2021-045 Series of 2021

To : Registered’ Non-Bank Operators of Payment Systems with Phi/Pass""? Interface and All Phi/PaSS"“* Members

Subject: Guidelines on the Designation of the Bangko Sentral’s Philippine Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement (PhP-RTGS) Payment System as a Systemically Important Payment System (SIPS)

Pursuant to the approval of the Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 992 dated 29 July 2021, of the designation of the PhP-RTGS* payment system as Systemically Important Payment System’ (SIPS), and notified through Circular Letter No. aes! dated 13 August 2021, registered non-bank operators of payment systems with Phi/Pass interface and all Phi/PaSs’“* members (herein collectively referred to as “subject recipients”) shall comply with the regulatory expectations set out in the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Circular No. 1089 or The Payment System Oversight Framework (PSOF) on participants of a designated payment system (DPS).

As participants® of the DPS, subject recipients are expected to contribute towards observance by the PhP-RTGS payment system (PS) of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures® (PFMI) relevant to SIPS. Given their respective roles in the PhP-RTGS PS, the subject recipients shall, at a minimum, comply with the ### following guidelines:

a. Participate in BSP surveys to assess safety, efficiency, and reliability of the payment system, including the performance of service by the operator;

b. Submit reports and/or information as required or requested by the BSP to facilitate evaluation of the PhP-RTGS and/or the national payment system;

c. Make available during regular onsite examination/assessment conducted by the BSP’, with prior written notification to the participants concerned, relevant documents and information to evaluate the activities related to the payment system;

d. Provide necessary information as requested by the operator of the designated payment system to facilitate the operator's compliance with reporting requirements under relevant laws and regulations;

e. Ensure that the PhP-RTGS rules and policies they agree to are aligned with the relevant principles to SIPS;

Entities with a Certificate of Registration in accordance with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Circular No. 1049 Series 2019.

Philippine Payment and Settlement System.

Currently runs in the Phi/Pass” system.

As defined under the Payment System Oversight Framework (PSOF) Circular No. 1089 series of 2020.

As defined under the National Payment Systems Act (NPSA).

International standards for financial market infrastructures (FMIs) issued by the BIS Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures (CPMI) and the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (lIOSCO).

Performed by the Financial Supervision Sector and/or the Payments Currency Management Sector of the BSP, as deemed applicable.

Ou rwn

x

## Page 2

f. Adhere to the rules, standards and requirements promulgated by the BSP and fulfill their respective roles to ensure safety, efficiency, and reliability of the PhP-RTGS PS, including participation in exercises or activities, such as testing, conducted by the operator; and,

g. Comply with BSP policy issuances primarily directed at all participants of a payment system or specific to their role in the PhP-RTGS PS.

The BSP may perform validation of compliance on any of the guidelines at any time, as deemed necessary.

For information and compliance.

### GCG G&G ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

/3. August 2021

Page 2 of 2 