### # M-2021-040

## Page 1

Reference No. SPRD-202107-0046

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021- 040

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Reminder to BSFIs to Refrain from Discriminatory Practices Toward Persons with Disability (PWD)

Pursuant to the Magna Carta for Disabled Persons or Republic Act No. 7277, as amended by Republic Act No. 10754, Batas Pambansa No. 344, Executive Order No. 4177 as well as BSP regulations on fair treatment and effective recourse under Section 1002 of the Manual of Regulations of Banks (MORB) and Sections 1002-Q, 702-N and 702-S of the Manual of Regulations of Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI), as amended by Circular No. 1048 dated O6 September 2019, and customer acceptance and identification policy under Section 921/921-Q of the MORB/MORNBFI, all BSFls should take into account the needs of PWDs, such as but not limited to, those with learning difficulties, people who are deaf or hard of hearing, and the visually impaired. This is to ensure that their rights as PWDs to participate fully in the social life and enjoyment of opportunities available to other citizens are upheld at all times.

All BSFls are sternly reminded to adhere to laws and regulations against discriminatory practices toward PWDs, including but not limited to, ### the following:

" non-acceptance of government-issued PWD identification cards for the opening of accounts and other financial transactions;

# turning away visually impaired persons from opening bank accounts; and

"requiring the visually impaired customers to open only joint (‘and/or’) accounts.

Apart from mobility ramps and Braille system in bank premises and automated teller machines (ATMs), all BSFls are also reminded to provide express lanes for PWDs similar to those express lanes reserved for senior citizens and pregnant women within their premises.

Digitally signed by

For guidance and strict implementation. , Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.07.16 20:56:48 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

16 July 2021

Page 1 of 1

. . ° . oe ee a oe ee ee oo 2 Ke ee 6 @ S © 