### # M-2021-035

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-035

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Use of Philippine Identification System (PhilSys) ID! for Customer Identification and Verification

Pursuant to Sections 904 and 921 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and Sections 904-Q, 921-Q, 602-S, 501-P, and 602-N of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBEFI), the identification document issued by the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) under the PhilSys is considered an official document to establish and verify the identity of a customer. Consistent with PSA Advisory dated 19 May 2021 (Annex A), the PhilSys ID should be accepted as official and sufficient proof of identity without the need to present any other identification documents.

This is consistent with the objectives of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11055 or the Philippine Identification System Act which, among others, aims to: (1) establish a single identification system for all citizens and resident aliens; (2) provide a valid proof of identity for all citizens and resident aliens as a means of simplifying public and private transactions; and (3) eliminate the need to present other forms of identification when transacting with the government and private sector, subject to the appropriate authentication measures based on biometric identification system.

For purposes of authentication, BSFIS may conduct either online or offline authentication procedures to verify the identity of the individual against the registry information in the PhilSys or PhillD, pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of R.A. No. 11055, and subject to the rules to be issued by the PSA.

'The Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card refers to the non-transferrable identification card issued by the PSA to all citizens and resident aliens registered under the PhilSys, which serves as the official government-issued identification document of cardholders in dealing with all government agencies, local government units, government and controlled corporations, government financial institutions, and all private sector entities.

## Page 2

BSFls should also consider advisories that will be issued by the PSA on digital authentication and electronic-Know-Your-Customer (e-KYC) using fingerprint, iris, facial, SMS-based One Time Passwords, or demographic verification.

BSFls are reminded that R.A. No. 11055 penalizes any person or entity who without just and sufficient cause refuses to accept, acknowledge and/or recognize the PhillD card as the only official identification of the holder/possessor with a fine in the amount of Five hundred thousand pesos (PhP 500,000.00). The said penalty provision is without prejudice to the enforcement actions that the BSP may impose for violations of the relevant provisions of the MORB/MORNBFI.

For guidance and strict implementation. Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.06.07

14:41:43 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

07 June 2021

Att.: a/s

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

### ADVISORY ### TO : ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND THE PUBLIC ### THRU : CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION SUBJECT : Philippine Identification (PhillD) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities DATE >: 19 May 2021

Please be advised that as of 01 May 2021, the Philippines Statistics Authority (PSA) launched the third and final step of the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys) mass registration: distribution of Philippine Identification (PhillD) cards and PhilSys Numbers (PSN) to successful registrants.

Under Republic Act No. 11055 or the Philippine Identification System Act, ' the PhillD card shall serve as the official government-issued identification document of cardholders in dealing with all national government agencies (NGAs), local government units (LGUs), government-owned or controlled corporations (GOCCs), government financial institutions (GFls), State Universities and Colleges (SUCs), and all private sector entities. As such, the PhillD card shall be accepted as sufficient proof of identity, without the need to present any other identification documents.

To further stress the importance of the above-mentioned provisions, the Act penalizes any person or entity who without just and sufficient cause

refuses to accept, acknowledge and/or recognize the PhillD card as

the only official identification of the holder/possessor with a fine in the amount of Five hundred thousand pesos (PhP 500,000.00). Finally, if

1 Sections 6-7 LOb~

PSA Complex, East Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 1101 Telephone: (632) 8938-5267 Www.psa.gov.ph

## Page 4

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

Subject: Philippine Identification (PhillID) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities

Date: 19 May 2021

the violation is committed by government official or employee, the penalty shall include perpetual absolute disqualification from holding any public office or employment in the government, including any GOCCs, and their subsidiaries.

Please find in the attached Annex an illustration of the PhillD card and description of relevant security features, which can be used to determine its authenticity.

Furthermore, in line with the Government’s commitment to personal data protection, tokenization? of the PSN has been adopted as a key privacy- by-design and security strategy of the PhilSys. To this end, please be advised that the permanent and irrevocable 12-digit PSN is microprinted on the back face of a registered person’s PhillD, which allows the registered person to retrieve their PSN when needed but also, importantly, to prevent others from being able to easily see or capture the PSN. A 16- digit PhillD Card Number (PCN) — essentially a public and replaceable token of the PSN that is valid for the life of the PhillD card — is printed conspicuously on the front face of the PhillD card, and is intended to be used for authentication purposes.

Registered persons are advised not to use their PSN for transactions but instead to use their PCN. Similarly, government agencies and private entities should not request or seed the PSN. The PhilSys will provide another form of token to be stored in databases of relying parties that are integrated with the PhilSys, subject to guidelines that will be issued by the PSA in the near future.

Digital authentication and e-KYC using fingerprint, iris, facial, SMS-based One Time Passwords or demographic verification will be launched by PSA towards the end of 2021. These PhilSys-enabled Services will allow identity to be verified even without the need for a physical PhillD, using the PCN or other tokens.

Loe~

2 Tokenization refers to the substitution of a sensitive data element (e.g. a permanent and unique identifier such as the PSN) by non-sensitive equivalents, i.e. a token (e.g. PCNs), that have no exploitable value by themselves and can be linked back to the sensitive data element when needed and revoked or rotated when needed.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 5

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

Subject: Philippine Identification (PhillID) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities

Date: 19 May 2021

With this, all concerned government agencies, the private sector and the general public are advised that PhillDs issued by the PSA shall be the official proof of identity of the cardholder in dealing with all NGAs, LGUs, GOCCs, government GFls, SUCs, and all private sector entities.

For your information and guidance.

LOe~

CLAIRE DENNIS S. MAPA, Ph.D. Undersecretary National Statistician and Civil Registrar General

### DNSLM/MBG/ECQ/RDF

### Attachment:

1. Annex A — illustration of the PhillD card and description of relevant security features

Page 3 of 3

## Page 6

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

Subject: Philippine Identification (PhillID) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and

private entities Date: 19 May 2021

Annex A - Illustration of the PhillD card and description of relevant

security features

### FRONT

### REPUBLIKA NG PILIPINAS Republic of the-Philippines- ### PAMBANSANG PAGKAKAKILAN

ce, Philippine Identificatic f j

2 Apelvido/Ei i

JUAN: way

Gitnang Apelyido/Middle Name ### MARTINEZ

Titahan/Address =) lip & ### -833 SISA ST., BRGY 526, ZO CITY, METRO MANILA Ee

NY i 1 it <) Mga Pangalan/Given Names.

iPetsa ng Kapanganakan/Date of Birth

ee

### SAMPALOK, MANILA

Araw ng pagkakaloob/Dati ### 14 JUNE 2019 @ Kasarian/Sex y

### MALE 2° : “ a ng Dugo/Blood Type

### “HIETS

“Kalagayang Sibil/Marital Status i SINGLE Say Lugar ng Kapangané QUEZON Cl Y,

ti

SHuPES

& Pitan wien of 000010123456

Overt Features

Republic of the Philippines Seal Card Headers

PhilSys Registry Office Seal PhilSys Card Number

Personalized data and labels

Guilloche Design

Personalized picture

Ghost image

9 Diffractive Optically Variable Image Device

Pantone image

Covert Features Color-Shifting Print Microprint

Guilloche Design small texts and hidden texts

Back Card Design

Overt Features

Guilloche Design Personalized data and labels QR Code

Card Serial Number

Covert Features

Latent image

UV fluorescent images

6 7 I PSN Microprint

Guilloche Design small texts and hidden texts _I

[On Page 1 of 1 