### # M-2022-048

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

MEMORANDUM NO. m-2022-048 To : All Trust Entities

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of the Report on Assets of Non-Resident Participants in Unit Investment Trust Funds

Relative to the amendment to the Manual of Regulations for Banks and the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions under Circular No. 1157 dated 14 October 2022 allowing trust entities (TEs) to participate in the secondary market for BSP Securities through unit investment trust funds (UITFs) with minimal non-resident participation, a reporting requirement is introduced for all TEs that offer UITFs. This is the Report on Assets of Non-Resident Participants in UITFs ### (RANRP).

### Following are the submission guidelines for the report: A. Submission Guidelines

1. The report shall consist of the prescribed data entry template (DET) and its corresponding Control Prooflist (CP). The DET and the corresponding CP can ### be downloaded from the following website:

ing_ or directly requested from the Capital Markets and Trust Supervision Department (CATSD) through the email address: catsd-reports@bsp.gov.ph. In requesting the files, TEs shall use the following prescribed format for the subject line of the email, [REQUEST ]<space>Trust Entity Acronym<space>Templates for Report on Assets of Non-Resident Participants in UITFs.

2. The first RANRP shall cover the reference month of October 2022. The submission deadline of the first report is on 30 November 2022. Subsequent submissions of the RANRP shall be due within 15 calendar days from the end of each reference month.

3. The accomplished DET in Microsoft Excel format and the corresponding CP in Portable Document format shall be electronically transmitted in a single e-mail to catsd-reports@bsp.gov.ph. The CP shall be jointly signed by the TE’s Trust Officer and the Head of Compliance.

### The prescribed format for the email subject is as follows:

RANRP <space> Trust Entity Acronym, <space> <Reference Period in DD MMMM YYYyY>

## Page 2

For example,

To : catsd-reports@bsp.gov.ph Subject : RANRP ABCTC, 31 October 2022

The sole attachments to the e-mail shall be the two (2) files comprising the RANRP, one (1) DET and one (1) CP, with the following prescribed file naming ### conventions and formats:

File File Name File Format DET RANRP <Trust Entity Acronym> I .xls <Reference Period ### MMDDYYYY>

CP RANRP <Trust Entity Acronym> I .pdf CP <Reference Period ### MMDDYYYY>

4. In electronically submitting the report, the covered TE shall use an e-mail address officially registered with the BSP’s Department of Supervisory Analytics. In accordance with BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017, the BSP shall accept only submissions made through the supervised entity's registered e-mail address/es. Submissions using registered e-mail accounts are considered as the official submissions of the TE.

5. Covered TEs that are unable to electronically transmit the RANRP may save the two (2) files to any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) and transmit the same through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed ### deadline. The submission shall be addressed to:

The Director

Capital Markets and Trust Supervision Department Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

TI Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate

1004 Manila

6. Queries regarding the RANRP_ shall be sent via e-mail to tamsd@bsp.gov.ph following the prescribed format as the subject, [INQUIRY ]<space>Trust Entity Acronym<space>RANRP<space>- <space>[Description of query].

B. Important Reminders

### 1. The following shall result in a failed submission:

a. Failure to submit via an officially registered e-mail address;

b. Failure to use the prescribed DET and the corresponding CP;

c. Failure to use the prescribed subject line;

d. Failure to include both the DET and the corresponding CP as attachments to the email;

e. Failure to adopt the prescribed file names and/or file formats;

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

f. Submission of an e-mail containing more than one (1) DET and one

(1) CP; or g. Submission to an e-mail address other than the prescribed address.

Report submissions that do not conform with the prescribed guidelines shall not be accepted. Beginning with the reference month of December 2022, applicable penalties will be imposed for erroneous, delayed or unsubmitted

reports.

For compliance. Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.11.14 17:35:53 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

14 November 2022

Page 3 of 3

## Page 4

(Name of Trust Entity) Report on Assets of Non-Resident Participants in UITFs

NOTE: For this purpose, a non-resident is defined as an individual, a corporation or other juridical person not included in the definition of a "resident" in the Glossary of Terms of the BSP’s Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions.

Did the TE purchase BSP securities for any of its UITFs during the month (Yes or No)? I

If the answer to the question above is "No," the TE shall still submit to the BSP this report reflecting the "No" response. The schedule below shall be left blank. If the answer to the question above is "Yes," the TE shall fill out the schedule below.

### Instruction: For each day of the month in which a TE purchased BSP bills for one or more UITF(s), the TE shall report the total amount of BSP securities purchased for each fund, and provide other details on the fund as required in the schedule below.

Reference Month ending (dd-Mmm-yyyy) In PHP equivalent (Units * NAVpu)

Date of Fund Name PESO/FCDA a. Amount of BSP b. Amount of c. Total Net e. Share of Non-Residents’ Purchase (as indicated in the Financial Reporting (aronderen) Securities Purchased Outstanding BSP Assets of Non- d. Total Net Assets Net Assets to Total Net During the Day Securities at the End of Residents of the UITF Assets of the UITF (Face Amount) the Day (Market Value) [ (c)/ (d)]

(dd-Mmm-yyyy) Package for Trust Institutions)

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 5

Deadline: 15 calendar days after end of reference month

Format: Portable Document Format

### REPORT ON ASSETS OF NON-RESIDENT PARTICIPANTS IN UNIT INVESTMENT TRUST FUNDS (UITFs)

Name of Trust Entity (TE) Institution Code

The trust entity did not purchase BSP securities for any of its UITFs during the month ending .

We hereby certify that all matters set forth in the Report on Assets of Non-Resident Participants in UITFs, including this Control Prooflist, are true and correct to the best of our knowledge and belief.

(Name and Signature of the TE’s (Name and Signature of the TE’s Trust Officer / Date Signed) Head of Compliance / Date Signed)

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 6

Deadline: 15 calendar days after end of reference month

Format: Portable Document Format

### REPORT ON ASSETS OF NON-RESIDENT PARTICIPANTS IN UNIT INVESTMENT TRUST FUNDS (UITFs)

Name of Trust Entity (TE) Institution Code

The trust entity purchased BSP securities for one or more of its UITFs during the month ending

In compliance with the reporting requirements for a trust entity that participated in the secondary market for BSP Securities, we provide the following information aggregating data for all UITFs that purchased BSP Securities during the reference month.

Particulars Amount

Count of UITFs with Purchases of BSP Securities during the reference month

Aggregate Amount of BSP Securities Purchased (Face Amount) during the reference month

Aggregate Net Assets of Non-Residents in the UITFs with Purchases of BSP Securities during the reference month (Units*NAVpu), as of month-end

Aggregate Net Assets of the UITFs with Purchases of BSP Securities during the reference month (Units*NAVpu), as of month-end

We hereby certify that all matters set forth in the Report on Assets of Non-Resident Participants in UITFs, including this Control Prooflist, are true and correct to the best of our knowledge and belief.

(Name and Signature of the TE’s (Name and Signature of the TE’s Trust Officer / Date Signed) Head of Compliance / Date Signed)

Classification: GENERAL 