### # M-2022-036

## Page 1

“af BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022-036

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of Report of Selected Branch Accounts through the BSP Financial Institution (Fl) Portal

Pursuant to Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11054, also known as the "Organic Law for the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao" and the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Board Resolution No. 13, Series of 2021 - “Approving and Adopting the Third Quarter 2021 Philippine Standard Geographic Code (PSGC) Updates to Include the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (BARMM) and Correct the Names of 37 Barangays’, all banks shall observe the following guidelines in the electronic submission of Report of Selected Branch Accounts beginning ### 30 June 2022 report:

Submission Guidelines

1. All Banks shall use the prescribed Report of Selected Branch Accounts Data Entry Template (DET) Branch list files, and Control Prooflist (CP) which can be downloaded _ from

ing_ or may directly be requested from the BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through dsareports@bsp.gov.ph. \n requesting the said template, ### banks shall use the prescribed subject line format as follows: [REQUEST] Report of Selected Branch Accounts Template.

2. For semester ending 30 June 2022, all Banks shall submit the Report of Selected Branch Accounts through the FI Portal on or before 31 August 2022. Subsequent reports will be due for submission within twenty (20) banking days after end of reference quarter.

3. The DET and CP shall be submitted through the FI Portal using the prescribed file naming convention and _ file extension/format, ### as identified below:

File File Name File extension/ Format Data Entry Template BRIS XLS

Control Prooflist Control Prooflist PDF

## Page 2

4. Banks that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the DET and CP in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed deadline ### addressed to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

5. Report submissions should continue to comply with existing BSP reporting standards. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted, and validated, subject to applicable penalties for reporting violations.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by AG Lyn I. Javier . «on 10 August 2022

=_—

### JY LYN I. JAMMER Sectorin-Charge

10 August 2022

Page 2 of 2 