### # M-2022-037

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022-037

To : All Banks and Non-Banks with Quasi Banking Functions (NBQBs) Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of DDA

Reconciliation Statement Report through the BSP Financial Institution Portal (FI Portal)

Pursuant to Circular No. 1135 dated 21 January 2022 on the Guidelines on the Settlement of Electronic Payments Under the National Retail Payment System (NRPS) Framework, all banks/quasi-banks shall observe the following guidelines in the electronic submission of the DDA Reconciliation Statement ### beginning 30 June 2022 report:

Submission Guideli

1. All Banks and NBQBs shall use the prescribed DDA Reconciliation Statement Data Entry Template (DET) and Control Prooflist (CP) which can be downloaded from www.bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates or may directly be requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through dsareports@bsp.gov.ph. \n requesting the said template, covered ### institutions shall use the prescribed subject line format as follows: [REQUEST] DDA Reconciliation Statement Template.

2. Forsemester ending 30 June 2022, all Banks and NBQBs shall submit the DDA Reconciliation Statement report through the FI Portal on or before 31 August 2022. Subsequent reports will be due for submission within fifteen (15) banking days from the end of reference semester.

3. The DET and CP shall be submitted through the FI Portal using the prescribed file naming convention and file extension/format, as ### identified below:

File extension/

File File Name Format

DET DDA xls

Control Prooflist I DDA-Control Prooflist pdf

## Page 2

4. Banks and NBQBs that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the DET and CP in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed ### deadline addressed to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

5. Report submissions should continue to comply with existing BSP reporting standards. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted, and validated, subject to applicable penalties for reporting violations.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by AG Lyn I. Javier . a on 10 August 2022

### / LYN I. JAMIER Sector7in-Chatge

10 August 2022

Page 2 of 2 