### # M-2024-031

## Page 1

### ; BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024- 031

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Subject : Amendments to the Reporting Template of Biographical Data

Pursuant to existing regulations prescribing the submission of Biographical Data of directors/officers, all BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs) shall use the amended Biographical Data Template beginning 31 October 2024.

The enhancement in the said template includes (i) changes in the format of zip code and contact numbers; and (ii) alignment of "Family Relations” data element with the definition of close family members under Sections 131/131-Q of the Manual of Regulations for Banks and Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions on Corporate Governance.

The amended Biographical Data Template and the corresponding Control Prooflist can be downloaded from https:/Awww.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting_ templates or may be requested directly from the BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) thru dsareports@bsp.gov.ph. In requesting the said template, covered ### institutions shall use the prescribed subject line format as follows: [REQUEST] BIODATA Template.

Submission of the old version of the Biographical Data Template beginning 31 October 2024 shall automatically fail validation and will be considered non-compliant with the BSP reporting standards.

All other provisions of BSP Memorandum M-2019-027 dated 15 November 2019 setting the guidelines on the electronic submission of the Biographical Data to DSA shall remain in effect.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by = * Sungsai Judith Esteban Date: 2024.09.26 21:14:21 +08'00' ### DITH E. SUNGSAI

Sector-In-Charge

26 September 2024 