### # M-2023-040

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2023-040

To : All Banks and Quasi-Banks (QBs)

Subject : Revised Standard Operating Procedures for Philippine Holidays

In line with its commitment to support the smooth operation of the country’s large value payment system and the broader Philippine financial system, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) further amends its Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Philippine Holidays under Appendix 88 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks and Appendix Q-51 of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions.

The revised SOP underscores the availability of essential BSP services during government work suspensions and holidays that are not on the list of regular and special non-working holidays issued by the Office of the President prior to or at the start of a new year. These services include payments and settlements, and cash operation. To support the liquidity requirements of the participants, the revised SOP also provides for the availability of the Overnight Deposit Facility and Term Deposit Facility maturities on ad hoc holidays.

Moreover, the amendments reflect updates on the SOP of the Bankers Association of the Philippines, Philippine Clearing House Corporation, Bureau of the Treasury, and Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corp. The BancNet's SOP already forms part of the amended policy.

This Memorandum supersedes Memorandum No. M-2021-001 dated 04 January 2021.

For guidance and immediate compliance. ### A ————. ### EL! M. REMOLONA, JR.

Governor

22 December 2023

## Page 2

Type of Holiday

1. Malacafiang-declared regular and special (non-working) ### holidays, including:

Regular Holidays

- New Year's Day (January 1}

- Araw ng Kagitingan (April 9)

- Maundy Thursday (March or April)

- Good Friday (March or April)

+ Labor Day (May 1}

- Independence Day (June 12)

- National Heroes’ Day (Last Monday of

August)

- Bonifacio Day (November 30)

- Christmas Day (December 25)

+ Rizal Day (December 30)

- Eid’! Fitr (no definite day or month}

+ Eid’l Adha (no definite day or month)

Special Non-working holidays

- Chinese New Year (around February)

- EDSA Revolution Anniversary

(February 25)

- Black Saturday (March or April}

- Ninoy Aquino Day {August 21)

- All Saints’ Day (November I}

~ All Souls’ Day (November 2)

~ Feast of the Immaculate Conception

(December 8)

- Christmas Eve (December 24)

- Last day of the Year (December 31)

2. Malacafang-declared non-working days for both public and private sectors

(including more than one day and previously announced/issued holidays not included in item 1)

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS

Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)

Monetary and FX (USD/PHP)

: Payments and Settlements Operations

Trading and Settlement of BSP-Financial Markets (FM) transactions such as, but not limited to, ODF, OLF, TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP and Government Securities, and USD/PHP

Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement through PhilPassP

Closed

Closed Closed

Shall open in the middle of extended holidays for limited settlements such as of cash, PESONet, Instapay, and ATM transactions, unless the BSP Governor decides to suspend operations due to

Cash Services by BSP Regional Offices and Branches {ROBs) including the Greater Manila

Regionat Office (GMRO)

Currency Deposits and Withdrawals, Cash Service Alliance (CSA), First-level System Administration, and Check-clearing Tellering Transactions?

Closed

Shall open if PhifPass?s opens, except when authorized agent banks (AABs) represent that the pertinent services of BSP ROBs are not required for the said period.

Reserve Position

Non-reserve

Non-reserve

BTr / BAP / PDEx / ### MART

. BTr—NRoSS

Settlement

. BAP-—FX and FX

Derivatives Trading

. PDEx — Fixed

Income Trading

. MART — interbank

GS Repo Trading

Closed

* Check-clearing Tellering is offered by GMRO only and this has dependency on the operations of the Philippine Clearing House Corporation (PCHC). Page 1of 8

Equities Depository and Fixed Income Depository DvP

Closed

CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP), and PDDTS

Closed

The PCHC Office shall be closed but the systems (Check Image and Clearing System or CICS and PESONet) shall remain open to accept transactions from the banks. CICS and PESONet maintain a holiday/date table that enables them to handle these types of declarations, Settlement of these transactions shall be done on the next business day when PhilPaSS?s is open and available to settle transactions.

PDDTS RTGS/PvP trading) shail be closed.

### (USD/PHP

Closed

PCHC Office shall be closed but the systems (CICS and PESONet) shall remain open and shall accept transactions from the banks. CICS and PESONet maintain a holiday/ date table that enables them to

### ANNEX A

BancNet

ATM and InstaPay Settlements

Closed

The BancNet Office shall be closed but the Data Center Operations shall remain open 24/7. Application systems (ATM Switch, Government Payments, Internet Banking and instaPay) shall remain open to process transactions from participants. Settlement of these transactions shall be done on the next business day when PhifPassp™s is open and available to settle transactions.

Closed

The BancNet Office shall be closed but the Data Center Operations shall remain open 24/7. Application systems (ATM Switch, Government Payments, Internet Banking and InstaPay) shall remain

## Page 3

Operations

Type of Holiday

Trading and Settlement

limited to, ODF, OLF,

BSP and Government

(Announcement is done through online platforms, traditional media, and other modes/channels of public information dissemination)

Announced holidays on an ordinary business day

Open

. Announced before 9:00 a.m. due to emergency situations such

Closed

day shall be processed.

Other settlements

~ Heavy rains maturities (OLF, Overnight

- Localized flooding

- Conflagration

- Massive transportation strike

- Armed or civil conflict

Day 1

settied.

Monetary and FX (USD/PHP)

BSP-Financial Markets (FM) transactions such as, but not

TDF, Overnight RRP Facility,

Securities, and USD/PHP

ODF and TDF maturities for the

Facility, BSP and Government Securities) shall be settled if BTr NRoSS is open. BSP-FM USD/PHP transactions due for settlement for the day shall be

Payments and Settlements

of

Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement through PhilPass?*

tisk to safety of BSP personnel or the payment system.

Announcement of opening/suspension of operations shall be done by the Payments and Settlements Department (PSD).

Open

Open, unless the BSP Governor decides to suspend operations due to risk to safety of BSP personnel or the payment system.

and ### RRP

Announcement of suspension/closing of operations shall be done by the PSD.

All transactions shall be settled in PhilPass’“s except those that cannot be done due to the suspension of the operations of other concerned BSP departments, and Financial Market

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS

Appendix 88/Q-51

Cash Services by BSP Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs) including the Greater Manila

Regional Office (GMRO)

Currency Deposits and Reserve Position Withdrawals, Cash Service Alliance (CSA), First-level System Administration, and Check-clearing Tellering

Transactions?

Suspension of operations due to tisk to safety of personnel of BSP ROBs shall be approved by the ### following BSP officials:

¢ BSP Governor — for GMRO

° BSP Oeputy Governor, Regional Operations and Advocacy Sector (ROAS) — for

provincial BSP ROBs

Announcement of opening/ suspension of operations shalt be done by the respective BSP ROBs.

Open Reserve

Non-Reserve

Open, except when AABs represent that the pertinent services of BSP ROBs are not required for the said period.

Suspension of operations due to risk to safety of personne! of BSP ROBs shail be approved by the ### following BSP officials:

¢ 8SP Governor — for GMRO © BSP Deputy Governor, ROAS — for provincial BSP ROBs

Page 20f8

BTr / BAP / PDEx / ### MART

### ANNEXA

BancNet

. BTr—NROoSS

Settlement 2. BAP—FX and FX ngs ae Equities Derivatives « . Depository and Trading Fixed Income 3. PDEx ~ Fixed

Income Trading . MART - Interbank GS Repo Trading

Malacafiang-declared non-working days for public sector alone (Announcement is done through online platforms, traditional media, and other modes/channels of public information dissemination.)

Open

Open Open,

Maturing interbank javailabie. transactions shall be settled except those that cannot be done due to the suspension of the operations of concerned BSP departments, FMis, and CSOs.

Announcement

PDEx/PDS Group.

Depository DvP

if PhilPasse™ is

of Fi Settlement shall be done by

CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP), and PDDTS

handle these types of declarations. Settlement of these transactions shall be done when PhilPass’™ is

open and available to settle transactions. PDDTS RTGS/PvP (USD/PHP

trading) shall be closed.

Open

Open

Check Clearing and PESONet applications are open 24/7.

In coordination with Citibank, PDOTS RTGS shall open. PvP shail remain open for the settlement of maturing USD/PHP transactions.

ATM and InstaPay Settlements

open to process transactions from participants. Settlement of these transactions shall be done when PhilPaSS°™ is open and available to settle transactions.

Open

Open

Settlement of transactions shall depend on PhilPaSs?* operations.

## Page 4

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS ANNEX A Appendix 88/Q-51

BTr / BAP / PDEx / ### MART

PDTC PCHC BancNet

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)

Cash Services by BSP Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs)

Monetary and FX ({USD/PHP) . BTr—NRoSS

Payments and Settlements

Operations including the Greater Manila Settlement . Regional Office {GMRO) - Type of Holiday 8 { ) 2. Pervatuan FX Equities i i 1 P Tradin i and Settlement of Currency Deposits and Reserve Position Trading Depository and I CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP), ATM and InstaPay Settlements

BSP-Financial Markets (FM) . . . Fixed Income and PDDTS . Withdrawals, Cash Service 3. PDEx - Fixed .

transactions such as, but not . . . . Depository DvP

limited to, ODF, OLF Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement Alliance (CSA), First-level Income Trading , pee through PhilPasse™ System Administration, and 4. MART - Interbank

TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP and Government Securities, and USD/PHP

Check-clearing Tellering GS Repo Trading

Transactions!

NROSS shall operate if there is fixed income trading as determined by PDEx.

Infrastructures (FMIs) and Clearing IAnnouncement of suspension of Switch Operators (CSOs) linked to the operations shall be done by the PhilPaSsP™s. respective BSP ROBs.

- Strong earthquakes and tsunamis

- Force majeure events

- Infectious

diseases outbreak

There will be no USD/PHP spot and swap trading.

Opening on the second and Open, Open, Reserve day, Open Open, Open Open

succeeding days shall be Junless the BSP Governor decides to }except when AABs represent] if Monetary and if PhilPass is

decided by the Governor {suspend operations due to risk to I that the pertinent services of ]FX, Payment and NROSS shall operate if I available. Check Clearing and PESONet ISettlement of transactions shall before 6:00 a.m. upon the Isafety of BSP personnel or the {BSP ROBs are not required forISettlement, and there is fixed income applications are open 24/7. depend on PhilPaSsS° operations.

Payment system. Announcement of I the said period. Cash Service suspension/closing of operations shall Operations by be done by PSD. Suspension of operations due to}GMRO = are ail risk to safety of personnel of BSP I open. All transactions shall be settled in IROBs shall be approved by the ### PhilPaSsP* except those that cannot Ifollowing BSP officials:

be done due to the suspension of the

operations of other concerned BSP I e 8SP Governor — for GMRO departments, and FMlIs and CSOs} e BSP Deputy Governor, ROAS linked to the PhifPass™s, ~ for provincial BSP ROBs

BSP-Incident Management Team's (IMT) recommendation.

of Fl Settlement jin coordination with Citibank, shall be done by IPDDTS RTGS shall open. PvP shail If BSP-FM does notI PDEx/PDS remain open for the settlement of open, there will be no} Group. maturing USD/PHP transactions. USD/PHP spot and swap trading.

by PDEx.

Day 2 onwards

If the BSP-FM opens, it shall make the appropriate announcement to its counterparties before 9:00 a.m.

Announcement of suspension of operations shall be done by the respective BSP ROBs.

c. Announced on a Saturday or Under Sunday to take {favorable effect the conditions following

Open Open Reserve Open Open Open Open

Page 3 of 8

## Page 5

Monday, or announced on a non-working holiday to take effect the next business day, and suspension is localized (e.g., Araw ng Maynila, SONA, Quezon City Day, APEC, Papal Visit, etc.)

The BSP shall make the declaration of favorable or unfavorable condition before 6:00 a.m.

d. Announced at 9:00 a.m. onwards on the date of effectivity and

Type of Holiday

Under unfavorable conditions

Cause of holiday shal! NOT require evacuation

Monetary and FX (USD/PHP) Operations

Trading and Settlement of BSP-Financial Markets (FM} transactions such as, but not limited to, ODF, OLF, TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, 8SP and Government Securities, and USD/PHP

Closed

ODF and TDF maturities for the day shall be processed.

Other settlements and maturities (OLF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP and Government Securities trades) shall be settled if BTr NROSS is open. Otherwise, these shall be processed on the next business day. BSP-FM USD/PHP transactions due for settlement for the day shall be settled.

If holiday extends up to the next business day/s, opening shall be decided by the Governor before 6:00 a.m. upon the BSP-IMT's recommendation.

{f the BSP-FM opens, it shall make the appropriate announcement to its counterparties before 9:00

Payments and Settlements

Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement through PhilPassr

Open,

unless the BSP Governor decides to suspend operations due to risk to safety of BSP personnel or the payment system. Announcement of suspension/ closing of operations shall be done by ### PSD.

All transactions shall be settled in PhilPass™s except those that cannot be done due to the suspension of the operations of other concerned BSP departments, and FMis and CSOs linked to the PhilPassrus.

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS Appendix 88/Q-51

BTr / BAP / PDEx / ### MART

Cash Services by BSP Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs)

- BTr—NRoSS

including the Greater Manila Settlement Regional Office (GMRO) 2. BAP - FX and FX Derivatives Currency Deposits and Reserve Position Trading

3. PDEx — Fixed Income Trading

4. MART - interbank

GS Repo Trading

Withdrawals, Cash Service Alliance (CSA), First-level System Administration, and Check-clearing Tellering Transactions?

Open, Non-reserve Open except when AABs represent that the pertinent services of BSP ROBs are not required for the

said period.

Maturing interbank transactions shall be settled except those

Suspension of operations due to risk to safety of personnel! of BSP ROBs shall be approved by the ### following BSP officials:

¢ BSP Governor ~— for GMRO e BSP Deputy Governor, ROAS. — for provincial BSP ROBs

departments, and CSOs.

FMIs,

NROSS shall operate if there is fixed income trading as determined by PDEx.

Announcement of suspension of operations shall be done by the respective BSP ROBs.

There will be no USD/PHP spot and swap trading.

Page 40f 8

Equities Depository and Fixed Income

Open, if PhilPasses ji available.

Announcement

PDEx/PDS Group.

Depository DvP

of Fl Settlement shall be done by

CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP), and PDDTS

Open Open Ss Check Clearing and PESONet

applications are open 24/7.

tn coordination with Citibank, PDDTS RTGS shall open. PvP shall remain open for settlement of maturing USD/PHP transactions.

BancNet

ATM and InstaPay Settlements

Settlement of transactions shall depend on PhilPaSS? operations.

### ANNEX A

## Page 6

Monetary and FX (USD/PHP)

: Payments and Settlements Operations

Type of Holiday

Trading and Settlement of BSP-Financial Markets (FM) transactions such as, but not limited to, ODF, OLF, TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP and Government Securities, and USD/PHP

Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement through PhilPassp'=

BSP operations have already started

Closed Open,

unless the BSP Governor decides to suspend operations due to risk to safety of BSP personnel or the payment

system.

ODF and TDF maturities for the day shall be processed.

Other settlements and maturities (OLF, Overnight RRPIAnnouncement of suspension/closing Facility, BSP and Government]of operations shall be done by PSD.

Securities trades) shall be settled if BTr NRoSS is open. Otherwise, these shall be processed on the next business day.

In case no suspension is announced, Operations of PSD shall be done remotely. No skeleton force from PSD shall be retained onsite.

All transactions shall be settled in PhilPaSsP. except those that cannot be done due to the suspension of the operations of other concerned BSP departments, and FMIs and CSOs linked to the PhilPaSs”™s,

{f holiday extends up to the next business day/s, opening shall be decided by the Governor before 6:00 a.m. I upon the BSP-IMT's recommendation.

lf the BSP-FM opens, it shall make the appropriate announcement to its counterparties before 9:00 a.m.

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS Appendix 88/Q-51

BTr / BAP / PDEx / ### MART

Cash Services by BSP Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs}

. BTr-NRoSS

including the Greater Manila Settlement Regional Office (GMRO) 2. BAP-FX and FX Derivatives Currency Deposits and Reserve Position Trading Withdrawals, Cash Service 3. PDEx ~ Fixed

Altiance (CSA), First-level System Administration, and Check-clearing Tellering Transactions?

Income Trading . MART - Interbank GS Repo Trading

Non-reserve

Open, Open except when AABs represent that the pertinent services of BSP ROBs are not required for the

said period.

there is fixed income

by PDEx.

Suspension of operations due to risk to safety of personnel of BSP ROBs shall be approved by the ### following BSP officials:

© BSP Governor — for GMRO © BSP Deputy Governor, ROAS - for provincial BSP ROBs

If BSP-FM does not open, there will be no USD/PHP spot and swap trading.

Announcement of suspension of operations shall be done by the respective BSP ROBs.

Page 50f8

Equities Depository and Fixed Income Depository DvP

Open,

if PhifPassr* is NROSS shall operate ifIavailable.

trading as determinedI Announcement

of Fl Settlement shall be done by PDEx/PDS Group.

CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP), and PDDTS

Open

Check Clearing and PESONet applications are open 24/7.

In coordination with Citibank, PDOTS RTGS shall open. PvP shall remain open for the settlement of maturing USD/PHP transactions.

### ANNEX A

ATM and InstaPay Settlements

Open

Settlement of transactions shal! depend on PhilPass’™ operations.

## Page 7

Monetary and FX (USD/PHP} Operations

Type of Holiday Trading and Settlement of

BSP-Financial Markets (FM) transactions such as, but not limited to, ODF, OLF, TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP and Government Securities, and ### USD/PHP

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS

Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP}

Cash Services by BSP Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs) including the Greater Manila

Regional Office (GMRO)}

Payments and Settlements

Currency Deposits and Withdrawals, Cash Service Alliance (CSA), First-level System Administration, and Check- clearing Tellering Transactions!

Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement ### through PhilPasse™:

BTr / BAP / PDEx / PDTC BancN MART PCHC ancNet

BTr — NRoSS Settlement BAP - FX and FX Derivatives Trading

PDEx — Fixed

Equities

Depository and I CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP),

and PDDTS ATM and InstaPay Settlements

Reserve Position

Fixed Income Income Trading I Depository DvP ### MART —

interbank GS

Repo Trading

4. Trading holiday declared by the BSP Governor due to emergency situations such as infectious diseases outbreak, lockdown, and other similar situations. Triggers for the BSP Governor to consider such a declaration include, but are not limited to, a declaration by the President, the Secretary of Health, or any competent government official duly authorized by law of a Code Red Sublevel Two (2), or of the imposition of

community quarantine in the entirety of Metro Manila.

Closed

a, Announced before 9:00 a.m,

Oay1

Closed Closed

Non-reserve Closed Closed Open Settlement of transactions shall depend on PhilPaSse™s

operations.

CICS shall continue to accept regular checks but shall be value- dated the next day when PhilPaSs** opens. PESONet shall also. continue to receive transactions for next day settlement.

if the suspension announcement is received before the 8AM Morning Returns cutoff, acceptance of returns shall likewise be extended until 8AM of Day 2 when PhilPasSs’* opens. Morning Returns value date shall be the settlement date.

PCHC shall issue its own advisory

to its members citing the PhilPaSs’™* advisory received and shall inform them that PESONet and CICS shall remain open to accept clearing transactions.

In coordination with Citibank, PDDTS RTGS shall open.

Page Gof 8

### ANNEXA

## Page 8

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS ANNEX A Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) BTr/ Bar I PDE / PDTC PCHC

Cash Services by BSP Regional

Monetary and FX (USD/PHP) Offices and Branches (ROBs) 1. BTr—NRoSS Operations Payments and Settlements including the Greater Manila Settlement Regional Office (GMRO) 2. ee FX and 7 Type of Holiday . . erivatives Equities Trading and Settlement of Currency Deposits and Reserve Position Trading Depository and I CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP}, ATM and InstaPay Settlements BSP-Financial Markets (FM) Withdrawals, Cash Service 3. PDEx — Fixed Fixed Income and PDDTS v

transactions such as, but not limited to, ODF, OLF, TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP and Government Securities, and ### USD/PHP

Alliance (CSA), First-level System Administration, and Check- clearing Teliering Transactions*

Income Trading I Depository DvP ### 4. MART -

Interbank GS

Repo Trading

Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement through PhilPasse™

Opening on the second and Open, Open, Reserve day, succeeding days shall be decided unless the BSP Governor decides to] except when AABs represent thatI if Monetary and FX, by the Governor before 6:00 a.m.I suspend operations. Announcement] the pertinent services of BSP ROBsI Payment and upon the BSP-IMT'sI of suspension/closing of operationsI are not required for the saidISettlement, and Cash recommendation. shall be done by PSD. period. Service Operations by GMRO are all Suspension of operations due toIopen. If BSP-FM opens, it shall make theI All transactions shall be settled inIrisk to safety of personnel of BSP appropriate announcement to itsI Phi/PaSse’* except those that cannot]ROBs shail be approved by the ### counterparties before 9:00 a.m. I be done due to the suspension of the] following BSP officials:

operations of other concerned BSP departments, and FMIs and CSOs] e BSP Governor — for GMRO linked to the PhilPaSse!4s. * BSP Deputy Governor, ROAS — for provincial BSP ROBs

Open Open, if PhilPass’’ is

NROSS shall operate I available.

if there is fixed

income trading as} Announcement

determined by PDEx.I of Fl Settlement}!n coordination with Citibank, shall be done byIPDDTS RTGS shail open. PvP shalt

If BSP-FM does not I PDEx/PDS Group. I remain open for the settlement of

open, there will be maturing USD/PHP transactions.

no USD/PHP spot

and swap trading.

Open Open

Check Clearing and PESONetISettlement of transactions shall applications are open 24/7. depend on PhilPasseus operations.

Day 2 onwards

Announcement of suspension of operations shall be done by the respective BSP ROBs.

Page 7 of 8

## Page 9

### ANNEX A

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) ae ### MART Cash Services by BSP Regional 1. BTr—NRoSS Monetary and FX (USD/PHP) Offices and Branches (ROBs) . r— NRO! Operations Payments and Settlements including the Greater Manila Settlement Regional Office (GMRO) 2. ae FX and cuit qi erivatives quities Type of Holiday Trading and Settlement of Currency Deposits and “es Trading Depository and I CICS, PESONet, PvP (USD/PHP), BSP-Financial Markets (FM) Withdrawals, Cash Service Reserve Position I. apex — Fixed Fixed Income and PDDTS ATM and InstaPay Settlements transactions such as, but not Peso Real-Time Gross Settlement Alliance (CSA), First-level System income Trading I Depository DvP limited to, ODF, OLF, TDF, through PhilPasse™ Administration, and Check- 4. MART- . ay igh PhilPa. : a . Overnight RRP Facility, BSP and clearing Tellering Transactions? Interbank GS Government Securities, and Repo Trading ### USD/PHP Assess situation and, if possible, Open, Open, Reserve day, Open Open, Open Open retain a skeleton force and{unless the BSP Governor decides to except when AABs represent that} if Monetary and FX, if PhilPassP™: is implement extended end of dayIsuspend operations. Announcement] the pertinent services of BSP ROBsI Payment andINROSS shall operate I available. Check Clearing and PESONet I Settlement of transactions shall protocol. of suspension/closing of operations} are not required for the saidISettlement,andCashlif there is fixed applications are open 24/7. depend on PhilPassP shall be done by PSD. period. Service Operations/income trading asIAnnouncement of operations. Announcement of BSP-FM by GMRO are _all/determined by PDEx.IFl Settlement shallIin coordination with Citibank, operations shall be done by] All transactions shall be settled in Suspension of operations due tolopen. be done byI PDDTS RTGS shall open. PvP shall BSP-FM. PhilPaSS*™* except those that cannot}risk to safety of personnel of BSP POEx/PDS Group. {remain open for the settlement of b. Announced at 9:00 a.m. onwards be done due to the suspension of theIROBs shall be approved by the maturing USD/PHP transactions. on the date of effectivity and BSP if holiday extends up to the next operations of other concerned BSP}following BSP officials: If BSP-FM does not operations have already started I business day/s, opening shall be I departments, and FMIs and CSOs open, there will be decided by the Governor before I linked to the Phi/Passr™s, © BSP Governor — for GMRO no USD/PHP spot 6:00 a.m. upon the BSP-IMT's ¢ BSP Deputy Governor, ROAS - and swap trading. recommendation. for provincial BSP ROBs If the BSP-FM opens, it shall make Announcement of suspension of the appropriate announcement Operations shall be done by the toits counterparties before 9:00 respective BSP ROBs. a.m.

Page 80f 8 