### # M-2023-034

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I REGIONAL OPERATIONS AND ADVOCACY SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2023-034

For ; All Authorized Agent Banks (AABs)

Subject ; Integrated Currency Management System (ICMS) Rollout to the BSP Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs)!

In connection with our previous advisory on the subject dated 20 August 2021 (Annex A) and in line with the BSP’s continuing efforts to provide a more resilient, effective, and efficient digital workspace to its stakeholders by leveraging on digital technology, we inform that the Regional Operations Sub-Sector (ROSS) is carrying out a project that will update its existing currency management system in the countryside.

The ICMS, which is the currency management system being used by the BSP Greater Manila Regional Office (GMRO) since 29 Aril 2019, will be rolled out by batches to the provincial BSP ROBs to replace the Integrated Regional Information System (IRIS).

The activities relative to the ICMS pilot testing in the BSP Lucena Branch are underway. The rollout will continue in the remaining 23 ROBs and is targeted to be completed by Q2-2024. The ICMS rollout is scheduled to commence in January 2024. Attached, for reference, is the rollout schedule (Annex B).

In view of the foregoing, AABs are hereby instructed to undertake necessary actions and participate in the following ICMS rollout activities to facilitate the smooth transition from IRIS to ICMS and ensure completion of the project within ### timelines:

A. Before the ICMS rollout

1. Submit to the ROBs’ designated email address (Annex C), in pdf format, by 30 November 2023, the copy of the updated and duly accomplished VPN registration forms, as applicable to its current VPN setup (Annexes D and E). Alternatively, the forms may be downloaded from the following links.

a. Remote VPN Form https:/Awww.bsp.gov.ph/PaymentAndSettlement/VPNForm(Rem ote).pdf

b. Site-to Site VPN Form https:/Awww.bsp.gov.ph/PaymentAndSettlement/VPNForm(Site- to-site).pdf

2. The IT departments of AAB Head Offices shall coordinate with their respective branch offices on the configuration and activation of their ### VPN connectivity to ensure access to the following sites:

1 Except the BSP Greater Manila Regional Office (GMRO)

2 IRIS is the currency management system being used in the BSP ROBs, except the BSP GMRO. It is a Lotus Notes-based legacy (outdated) system that has been in use since 2002. It is nearing its end of support as certain systems/technical support will be discontinued by 2024.

t } 8811-IBSP (1277) Ce} bspmail@bsp.gov.ph (w) bsp.gov.ph (a) A. Mabini St. Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines

## Page 2

a. Test https://cashportal-test.bsp.gov.ph/ https://csp-test.bsp.gov.ph/

b. Production https://cashportal.bsp.gov.ph/ https://csp.bsp.gov.ph/

The VPN configuration shall be completed? based on the attached rollout schedule (Annex B).

Should there be any VPN concerns/queries and/or need for further assistance, our BSP IT Support may be reached through email at

BSPSUPPORT@bsp.gov.ph.

3. Submit to the ROBs’ designated email address (Annex C), in pdf format, by 30 November 2023, the duly accomplished Cash Services Portal (CSP) User Registration (Annex F) and CSP Client Registration Form (Annex G) for location and user profile creation.

B. During the ICMS Rollout

The ICMS rollout to the ROBs will be done in two (2) phases. The first week is allotted for the user’s training while the second week is for the conduct of a parallel run.

1. Training

The AAB’s authorized ICMS users shall attend the user's training and participate in the training activities that will be conducted by the ICMS team. The respective ROBs will communicate the schedule of said training to their client banks. An ICMS user’s guide will also be provided in advance as a training/reference material.

2. Parallel run

During the parallel run, AABs shall encode their transactions with the BSP both in IRIS and ICMS.

Given that two (2) systems will be used during this period, it is anticipated that delays may be encountered in the processing of banks’ transactions. Nonetheless, we assure that appropriate measures will be undertaken to minimize the impact on operations.

Cc. After the ICMS Rollout

AABs shall continue to encode their transactions with the BSP both in IRIS and ICMS.

The ICMS team will conduct post-rollout activities, which include assessment of the readiness of both the ROB and its client banks to implement the new system. Once the ROB is cleared to “go-live”, it will mark the formal adoption of the ICMS as its currency management system. Henceforth, all banks’ transactions will be encoded and processed through the ICMS only.

3 For the AAB Branches in Lucena City, VPN connection shall be configured by 30 November 2023 for the necessary pilot testing activities that may be undertaken therein. Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

However, as part of the transition period, AABs will be allowed to use the designated workstations in the BSP ROBs to encode their transactions with the BSP for a maximum of ten (10) working days after the ICMS go- live date.

As the BSP intends to complete the ICMS rollout to the BSP ROBs within the prescribed timelines, AABs’ participation is crucial to the successful and timely completion of this endeavor.

Changes in the schedule will be communicated to the AABs, if there will be any.

For guidance and appropriate action.

~ Digitally signed by Guerrero Rosabel Bernardo Date: 2023.11.09 18:23:45 +08'00"

nos . GUERRERO Sector'in-Charge

_9 November 2023

Atts: A/S

Page 3 of 3

## Page 4

Annex A

### © BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### REGIONAL OPERATIONS ### BSP GREATER MANILA REGIONAL OFFICE

### ADVISORY NO. 04

Series of 2021 To : All Authorized Agent Banks (AABs) Subject : Currency Management Services of the BSP Greater Manila Regional Office (GMRO) during the Modified Enhanced

com i and

## Page 5

## Page 6

## Page 7

ICMS Roll-out in the BSP ROBs

The Integrated Currency Management System (ICMS) currently used by the AABs in the Greater Manila Area (GMA) shall eventually replace the Integrated Regional Information System (IRIS) used by the AABs in the Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs). Pilot launching of the ICMS is scheduled within the 1* quarter of 2022 in the BSP Branch located at Lucena City, Quezon. Upon successful system go-live with all AABs in the said area, the roll-out will continue in all other 23 ROBs and is targeted be completed by end of Y2022.

Relative to the ICMS implementation in the ROBs, the settlement of withdrawal transactions of AABs in the ROBs shall be similar to the procedures being followed by GMA AABs wherein settlement is facilitated via Philippine Payment and Settlement System (PhilPaSS) Plus. In this regard, AABs shall undertake the necessary preparation and coordination with their respective regional branches and concerned division/department for the designated users to be granted access to the PhilPaSS Plus for the settlement of withdrawal transactions of AABs in the ROBs.

For guidance of the AABs. woe dtl . GUERRERO Managing Director

20 August 2021

## Page 8

Annex B

Schedule of Integrated Currency Management System Rollout to the BSP Regional Offices and Branches

### BSP ROB

Lucena, Butuan, Cotabato, Dumaguete, Ozamiz, Roxas, San Fernando (La Union)

Rollout Schedule

O08 to 19 January 2024

Target Go-Live Date*

29 January 2024

VPN Completion Date

12 January 2024**

Batac, Dagupan, Legazpi, Naga, North Luzon Regional Office (Baguio), Zamboanga

O05 to 16 February 2024

26 February 2024

O09 February 2024

Bacolod, Cabanatuan, General Santos, Puerto Princesa, San Fernando (Pampanga), Tacloban

04 to 15 March 2024

25 March 2024

O8 March 2024

Cagayan de Oro, Iloilo, Mindanao Regional Office (Davao), Tuguegarao,

Visayas Regional Office (Cebu)

O1 to 12 April 2024

22 April 2024

05 April 2024

* All banks’ transactions with the BSP will be encoded and processed only through the ICMS. “ For the AAB Branches in Lucena City, VPN connection shall be configured by 30 November 2023 for the necessary pilot testing

activities that may be undertaken therein.

## Page 9

Annex C

BSP Regional Offices and Branches Contact Information

BSP Regional Office/Branch

Contact Person

E-mail Address

Jansen C. Dugenia DugeniaJC@bsp.gov.ph BSP North Luzon Regional Office Marimar L. Doloiras DoloirasML@bsp.gov.ph

Geely Joy L. Pida-oc Pida-ocGL@bsp.gov.ph

Fleurdeliz D. Damaso DamasoFD@bsp.gov.ph BSP Batac Branch

Ray Osmon S. Rifhopa RinopaRS@bsp.gov.ph

Janella S. Syyap SantosJAA@bsp.gov.ph BSP Cabanatuan Branch

Anabelle F. Belizario BelizarioAF@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Dagupan Branch

Lorena T. Nalapo

NalapoLT@bsp.gov.ph

Leslie D. Melgar

MelgarLD@bsp.gov.ph

BSP La Union Branch

Chezter Edgar C. Munar

MunarCC@bsp.gov.ph

Fe Bernadine R. Siapno SiapnoFR@bsp.gov.ph

Claireborne Y. Basilio BasilioCY@bsp.gov.ph BSP San Fernando (Pampanga) Branch

Jasmin Q. Flores floresig@bsp.gov.ph

Ma. Cristina B. Quilang QuilangMB@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Tuguegarao Branch

Emilson U. Jimenez

JimenezEU@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Legazpi Branch

Claire Therese N. Berja

BerjaCN@bsp.gov.ph

Arlene V. Lunas

Vital-LunasAJ@bsp.gov.ph

Danica Mae T. Jusay JusayDT@bsp.gov.ph BSP Lucena Branch

Joy-Ann G. Espanol EspanolJG@bsp.gov.ph BSP Naga Branch Sharon B. Moyano SBMoyano@bsp.gov.ph BSP Puerto Princesa Branch Sharry Wisa P. Ang AngSP@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Visayas Regional Office

Grace Hernando-Dinopol

DinopolGH@bsp.gov.ph

Ruel R. Ancot

AncotRR@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Bacolod Branch Grace Ann Z. Gumban-Badiana GumbanGZ@bsp.gov.ph Angelique M. Lumaya MaligaligAJ@bsp.gov.ph BSP Dumaguete Branch Novey G. Piao PiaoNG@bsp.gov.ph . Vern D. Yanson YansonVD@bsp.gov.ph BSP Iloilo Branch Mary Micah Grace P. Erispe ErispoeMP@bsp.gov.ph Karen Jane T. Ignacio IgnacioKT@bsp.gov.ph BSP Roxas Branch Ma. Christina B. Del Rosario DelRosarioMB@bsp.gov.ph BSP Tacloban Branch Cheryl Ann S. Aldaba AldabaCS@bsp.gov.ph ; ; Monica Marie Jalandoni-Bernales I JalandoniMB@bsp.gov.ph BSP Mindanao Regional Office Gerard Patrick T. Jocson JocsonGT@bsp.gov.ph

Page 1 of 2

## Page 10

BSP Butuan Branch

Jonalyn D. Sanchez

SanchezJD@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Cagayan de Oro Branch

Anthony Jocille Q. Lacuin

LacuinAQ@bsp.gov.ph

Gary T. Ocampo

OcampoGT@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Cotabato Branch

Donnah Mae B. Garcia-Descalo

garciadb@bsp.gov.ph

Krsha Renzy T. Villariza

illari

BSP General Santos Branch

Rowena A. Purugganan

ArnaezRT@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Ozamis Branch

Princess L. Heruela

HeruelaPL@bsp.gov.ph

BSP Zamboanga Branch

Nino Cris S. Patino

patinons@bsp.gov.ph

Page 2 of 2

## Page 11

Annex D

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) CONNECTIVITY REGISTRATION FORM (Remote Access VPN)

Company/Institution Name (Registrant) Complete Address (include zio code) I Date of Request

Registrant’s User/Representative Position Title Business Email Address Business Contact No. (Last Name, First Name, M1)

Department/Office/Unit (select one) I Accounting I Information Technology I Trade Services I Treasury Backroom L_] Cash Operations [_] Remittance [I Treasury L] Trust Remote Access VPN I New VPN User I Existing VPN User I Reset VPN Password I Delete VPN Account

Two Factor Authentication (2FA) Details I New Device I Retire Device I Reset PIN

Tablet Tablet

Smart Phone Smart Phone Desktop Desktop Laptop Laptop

### Device Operating System:

### Terms and Conditions:

1. The requested VPN access to BSP is provided for the exclusive use of Registrant to allow access in . The request is accomplished by the Registrant's authorized User/Representative and approved and signed by the Registrant’s Authorizing Officer. The Registrant shall

e conform to all the technical requirements of the BSP;

e be responsible for any upgrades on hardware/software, configuration and troubleshooting to establish and support the VPN connectivity, as may be required;

e Inform the BSP Business Department for o the list of active IP addresses and authorized VPN users o any changes in the VPN configuration five (5) days in advance to avoid disruption of the services.

The BSP may revoke, block, or permanently disallow the use of this service without prior notice due to reasons that may compromise internal security.

Any issues/errors encountered in the system, breach or compromise in the aforementioned application services shall be immediately relayed to BSP through the contact details provided in this form.

### . Agreement Il. Authorized by:

I hereby agree to the above terms and conditions. I also agree to keep confidential all information regarding the VPN. I will not disclose and/or copy the VPN settings onto unauthorized users/computers. Propagating BSP VPN configuration is considered a security breach and is ground for the termination of the account.

(Signature over Printed Name)

; : (Signature over Printed Name) Registrant's User/Representative

Registrant’s Authorizing Officer

TDIO Form No. 04-006 * Version 0 * Updated 27 Sep 2021 File/Ref. No. *Page 1of3

## Page 12

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) CONNECTIVITY REGISTRATION FORM (Remote Access VPN)

To be accomplished by BSP

### Ill. Operational/Business Recommending Approval: VI. Processed by:

I Endorsed I Denied

(Signature over Printed Name) (Signature over Printed Name) Head / Approving Officer Authorized Staff BSP Endorsing Department/Unit Technology and Digital Innovation Office

### IV. Recommending Approval:

### Action/s Taken: I Endorsed I Denied

(Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Officer Technology and Digital Innovation Office

### V. Approval:

(Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Approver Technology and Digital Innovation Office

TDIO Form No. 04-006 * Version 0 * Updated 27 Sep 2021 File/Ref. No. * Page 2 of 3

## Page 13

REGISTRATION FORM (Remote Access VPN)

### REMINDERS

I. Filling-up the VPN Connectivity Registration Form (Remote Access VPN)

1.

2.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) CONNECTIVITY

Application with incomplete/inaccurate information (e.g., name of Participant user, IP address for Remote Access

VPN details, applicable Application Name, etc..) will be returned to the Participant Institution. The Participant Institution must accomplish one (1) VPN Connectivity Registration Form (Remote Access VPN) per

user.

Il. Guidelines

A. Assistance may be requested from the IT Personnel (Network/Security) of the Participant Institution accomplishing this section. ### 1. Requirements for Remote Access VPN Connectivity: a. Internet Access Service (Minimum 2Mbps) b. Workstation c. VPN client (to be provided by BSP) ### B. Complete the Remote Access VPN and/or Two Factor Authentication (2FA) details: e Only one device can be registered. e For new VPN request, tick the “New VPN User” and specify the New Device Information for 2FA. e For replacement of device for 2FA request, tick the “Existing VPN User” and fill out the New and Retire Device Information for 2FA. e For reset of VPN password request, tick the “Reset VPN Password”

e For deletion of an existing VPN account request, tick the “Delete VPN Account”.

C. Dormant or idle accounts for 90 days shall be deactivated. D. If request for reactivation is not received, the account shall be deleted after being dormant for another thirty (50)

days from date of deactivation. E. Requests for reactivation of dormant accounts shall use the VPN Registration Form.

For further clarifications and inquiries, contact the concerned BSP Department.

Ill. BSP End-User Department Contact Details

BSP End-User Department

Application/System

Email Address

Contact No.

Payments and Settlements Department ### (PSD)

PhilPaSS Participant Browser

PhilPaSS Third Party System

PhilPaSS Plus Participant Browser and STP

Foreign Loan Approval and Registration System (FLAReS)

Personal Equity and Retirement Account (PERA)

Payments_unit@bsp.gov.ph

8400-7071 8400-7024 8400-7073

Financial Markets (FM) - Domestic Market Operations Department ### (DMOD)

Monetary Operations System ### (MOS)

Liquidity Forecasting System ### (LFS)

BSPTD-MMOS@bsp.gov.ph

8708-7020 8708-7042 8708-7038 8708-7047 8708-7024

Regional Operations (RO)

Cash Services Portal (CSP)/ Integrated Currency Management System (ICMS)

Cash Service Alliance (CSA)

Csd_icms-gp@bsp.gov.ph csa@bsp.gov.ph

9884-8286 8988-4853 8708-7452

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA)

Financial Stability Coordinating Council — Information Sharing

fsf-eis@bsp.gov.ph

306-2889

Department of Loans and Credit (DLC)

Loans and Credit Management Information System (LCMIS)

eRS@bsp.gov.ph Icmis@bsp.gov.ph

### TL: 8708-7701 Loc 2807 or 2351

Technology Risk and Innovation Supervision Department (TRISD)

Governance Risk and Compliance (GRC) System

mplabasan@bsp.gov.ph macatangayds@bsp.gov.ph

### TL: 87087701 Loc. 2135

VPN-related concerns

bspsupport@bsp.gov.ph

### DL: 5302-4190 ### TL: 8811-1277 Loc. 2113

Cybersecurity-related incidents/concerns

BSP_SOC_INT@bsp.gov.ph

(24x7) DL: 5306-1599

TDIO Form No. 04-006 * Version 0 * Updated 27 Sep 2021

File/Ref. No.

__ * Page 3 of 3

## Page 14

Annex E

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) CONNECTIVITY REGISTRATION FORM (Site-to-Site VPN)

Company/Institution Name (Registrant) Complete Address (inciude zip code) I Date of Request

Registrant’s User/Representative Position Title Business Email Address Business Contact No. (Last Name, First Name, M1)

Department/Office/Unit (select one)

I Accounting I Information Technology I Trade Services I Treasury Backroom I Cash Operations I Remittance I Treasury I Trust

Site-to-Site VPN I Delete IP Address

### L_] Add IP Address Preferred Date of Deletion:

A. Primary VPN Gateway A. Primary VPN Gateway

Client/Host IP Address Client/Host IP Address

. Secondary VPN Gateway B. Secondary VPN Gateway Client/Host IP Address Client/Host IP Address

. DRVPN Gateway C. DR VPN Gateway Client/Host IP Address Client/Host IP Address

. Test VPN Gateway D. Test VPN Gateway

Client/Host IP Address Client/Host IP address

### Terms and Conditions:

1. The requested VPN access to BSP is provided for the exclusive use of Registrant to allow access in < >. The request is accomplished by the Registrant’s authorized User/Representative and approved and signed by the Registrant's Authorizing Officer.

The Registrant shall e conform to all the technical requirements of the BSP; e be responsible for any upgrades on hardware/software, configuration and troubleshooting to establish and support the VPN connectivity, as may be required; Inform the BSP Business Department for o the list of active IP addresses and authorized VPN users © any changes in the VPN configuration five (5) days in advance to avoid disruption of the services. The BSP may revoke, block, or permanently disallow the use of this service without prior notice due to reasons that may compromise internal security. Any issues/errors encountered in the system, breach or compromise in the aforementioned application services shall be immediately relayed to BSP < > through the contact details provided in this form.

### Agreement Il. Authorized by:

I hereby agree to the above terms and conditions. I also agree to keep confidential all information regarding the VPN. I will not disclose and/or copy the VPN settings onto unauthorized users/computers. Propagating BSP VPN configuration is considered a security breach and is ground for the termination of the account.

(Signature over Printed Name) (Signature over Printed Name) Registrant's User/Representative Registrant’s Authorizing Officer

TDIO Form No. 04-007 * Version 0 * Updated 27 Sep 2021 File/Ref. No. *Page lof3

## Page 15

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) CONNECTIVITY REGISTRATION FORM (Site-to-Site VPN)

To be accomplished by BSP

### lll. Operational/Business Recommending Approval: VI. Processed by: I Endorsed I Denied (Signature over Printed Name) Date (Signature over Printed Name) Date Head / Approving Officer Authorized Staff BSP Endorsing Department/Unit Technology and Digital Innovation Office

### IV. Recommending Approval:

### Action/s Taken: I Endorsed I Denied

(Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Officer

Technology and Digital Innovation Office

### V. Approval:

(Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Approver Technology and Digital Innovation Office

TDIO Form No. 04-007 * Version 0 * Updated 27 Sep 2021 File/Ref. No. * Page 2 of 3

## Page 16

REGISTRATION FORM (Site-to-Site VPN)

### REMINDERS

Filling-up the VPN Connectivity Registration Form (Site-to-Site VPN)

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) CONNECTIVITY

Application with incomplete/inaccurate information (e.g., name of Participant user, IP address for Site- to-Site VPN, applicable Application Name, etc.) will be returned to the Participant Institution.

2. The Participant Institution may use one (1) VPN Connectivity Registration Form for all the end-users IP addresses. Use separate sheet for additional IP addresses as necessary.

Guidelines

A. Assistance may be requested from the IT Personnel (Network/Security) of the Participant Institution accomplishing this section. ### 1. Requirements for Site-to-Site VPN Connectivity: a. Internet Access Services (Minimum 2Mbps) b. Static Public IP address provided by Internet Service Provider on Enterprise firewall or an IPSEC/VPN-capable router

### B. Complete the Site-to-Site VPN details: 1. Indicate the static Public IP address of your Primary, Secondary and DR VPN Gateway.

2. Specify the static Public IP address assigned to your institution or assign one (1) Private IP address

for all the participants of the system

For further clarifications and inquiries, contact the concerned BSP Department. BSP End-User Department Contact Details

BSP End-User Department

Application/System

Email Address

Contact No.

Payments and Settlements Department ### (PSD)

PhilPaSS Participant Browser

PhilPaSS Third Party System

PhilPaSS Plus Participant Browser and STP

Foreign Loan Approval and Registration System (FLAReS)

Personal Equity and Retirement Account (PERA)

Payments_unit@bsp.gov.ph

8400-7071 8400-7024 8400-7073

Financial Markets (FM) - Domestic Market Operations Department ### (DMOD)

Monetary Operations System ### (MOS)

Liquidity Forecasting System ### (LFS)

BSPTD-MMOS@bsp.gov.ph

8708-7020 8708-7042 8708-7038 8708-7047 8708-7024

Regional Operations (RO)

Cash Services Portal (CSP)/ Integrated Currency Management System (ICMS)

Cash Service Alliance (CSA)

Csd_icms-gp@bsp.gov.ph csa@bsp.gov.ph

9884-8286 8988-4853 8708-7452

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA)

Financial Stability Coordinating Council — Information Sharing

fsf-eis@bsp.gov.ph

306-2889

Technology Risk and Innovation Supervision Department (TRISD)

Governance Risk and Compliance (GRC) System

mplabasan@bsp.gov.ph macatangayds@bsp.gov.ph

87087701 loc. 2135

VPN-related concerns

bspsupport@bsp.gov.ph

### DL: 5302-4190 ### TL: 8811-1277 Loc. 2113

Cybersecurity-related incidents/concerns

BSP_SOC_INT@bsp.gov.ph

(24x7) DL: 5306-1599

TDIO Form No. 04-007 * Version 0 * Updated 27 Sep 2021

File/Ref. No.

__ * Page 3 of 3

## Page 17

Annex F

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### REGIONAL OPERATIONS SUB-SECTOR

Cash Services Portal User Registration Form

### NAME OF BANK:

### Name of Client Location:

User Access

*Name of Bank Personnel Official Email Address Office Contact Number

Route: NOTES

### POLY

### NGC

BSP and NGC POLY and NGC

Portal Service: Withdrawal

Deposit Both

I further acknowledge that in affixing my signature, I am binding myself to the rules governing the use of the CSP account. The requested portal access to BSP is provided for the exclusive use of CSP users. In case your account has been compromised, kindly report the incident immediately to the BSP- ROSS through ross-ctsg@bsp.gov.ph.

### Signature:

(Signature Over Printed Name)

### Approved by:

(Signature over Printed Name) (Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Bank Signatory Authorized Bank Signatory

*Submit this form together with a photocopy of your Employee ID to Currency Operations Division.

(To be accomplished by BSP) ### Authenticated by: Approved by: Processed by:

(Signature over printed name)

Department Head ICMS Administrator

(Signature over printed name) (Signature over printed name)

(Signature over printed name)

## Page 18

### SAMPLE FORM ### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### REGIONAL OPERATIONS SUB-SECTOR

Cash Services Portal User Registration Form

Date: 10/10/2023 NAME OF BANK: ~ Land Bank of the Philippines

Name of Client Location: Land Bank of the Philippines - Lucena

User Access *Name of Bank Personnel Juan Dela Cruz

Official Email Address jdelacruz@lbp.com Office Contact Number 8988-8888

Route: COINS NOTES

### BSP POLY ### NGC NGC BSP and NGC POLY and NGC

### Portal Service:

Withdrawal

Deposit X Both

I further acknowledge that In affixing my signature, I am binding myself to the rules governing the use of the CSP account. The requested portal access to BSP is provided for the exclusive use of

CSP users. In case your account has been compromised, kindly report the incident immediately to the BSP-ROSS through ross-ctsg@bsp.gov.ph.

MEA? Q Lith? e

Signature: 7 Juan Dela Cruz 7

(Signature Over Printed Name) *Insert Bank Signatory’s name *Insert Bank Signatory’s’ name Approved by: and sign* and sign* (Signature over Printed Name) (Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Bank Signatory Authorized Bank Signatory

*Submit this form together with a photocopy of your Employee ID to Currency Operations Division.

(To be accomplished by BSP) ### Approved by:

### Authenticated by: Processed by:

(Signature over printed name)

Department Head ICMS Administrator (Signature over printed name) (Signature over printed name)

(Signature over printed name)

## Page 19

Annex G

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### REGIONAL OPERATIONS SUB-SECTOR Integrated Currency Management System Cash Services Portal (CSP) Client Location Registration/Update Form

### Date:

### BSP BRANCH: NAME OF BANK:

C1 New Location

### PWN =

ul

(1) Disable Location (Please indicate reason) ### Reason:

C0 Location Update ### From: ### To:

We hereby certify that the information provided above is true and correct.

### Approved by:

(Signature over Printed Name)

(Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Bank Signatory

Authorized Bank Signatory

Note: Submit this form to Currency Operations Division or Office of the Regional/Area Director.

(To be accomplished by BSP)

### Validated by: Approved by: Processed by: Date (Signature over printed name) Date RO/Branch Head Date ICMS System (Signature over printed Administrator name)

Date

(Signature over printed name)

(Signature over printed name)

### File/Ref. No.:

## Page 20

### REGIONAL OPERATIONS SUB-SECTOR Integrated Currency Management System

### SAMPLE FORM

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

Cash Services Portal (CSP) Client Location Registration/Update Form

BSP BRANCH: BSP Lucena

&] New Location

### Date:

NAME OF BANK: — Land Bank of the Philippines

Land Bank of the Philippines - Lucena

RWNo

Ww

(] Disable Location (Please indicate reason)

### Reason:

[] Location Update ### From:

### To:

We hereby certify that the information provided above is true and correct.

Approved by: *Insert Bank Signatory’s name

and sign*

*Insert Bank Signatory’s name

and sign*

(Signature over Printed Name)

Authorized Bank Signatory

(Signature over Printed Name) Authorized Bank Signatory

Note: Submit this form to Currency Operations Division or Office of the Regional/Area Director.

(To be accomplished by BSP)

### Validated by:

Date

(Signature over printed name)

Date

(Signature over printed name)

### Approved by:

Date RO/Branch Head (Signature over printed name)

### Processed by:

Date

ICMS System

Administrator (Signature over printed name)

### File/Ref. No.: 