### # M-2020-078

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2020-078

To : NON-STOCK SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS (NSSLAs)

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of the Financial Reporting Package for Non-Stock Savings and Loan Association (FRPNSSLA)

Pursuant to BSP Circular No. 1047 dated 29 August 2019 on the Guidelines on the Adoption of PFRS 9 - Financial Instruments and the Financial Reporting Package for Non-Stock Savings and Loan Association (FRPNSSLA), all Non-Stock Savings and Loan Associations (NSSLAs) shall observe the following submission guidelines for the live implementation of the FRPNSSLA beginning with the 30 September 2020 quarter-end reports.

1. Submission Procedures

a. NSSLAs shall use the prescribed Data Entry Template (DET), the corresponding Control Prooflist (CP), and the reconciliation rules for the FRPNSSLA. These can be downloaded from http://www.bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates.

b. NSSLAs shall electronically transmit reports for submission to this e-mail address — dsanssla-frp@bsp.gov.ph

c. NSSLAs shall use only email addresses officially registered with the DSA when electronically submitting reports. This is in line with BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017. The same registered e-mail address/es shall be used by the DSA in electronically acknowledging the submitted report and transmitting the corresponding validation and reconciliation results.

d. NSSLAs_ shall apply the prescribed format for the Subject -— “FRPNSSLA<space><Name of NSSLA>,<space><Reference Period in dd monthname ccyy>”

For Example,

To : dsanssla-frp@bsp.gov.ph Subject: FRPNSSLA <Name of NSSLA>, 30 September 2020

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines « (632) 708-7701 « www.bsp.gov.ph e bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

2.

### e. NSSLAs shall use the following prescribed file names and file format:

File File Name File Format Data Entry FRP-NSSLA xls Template Control Prooflist FRPNSSLA-CP pdf

The FRPNSSLA shall be submitted to the Bangko Sentral within thirty (30) calendar days after the end of reference quarter. If the 30th calendar day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Holiday, or on a day which business operations of the Bangko Sentral is suspended, the following business day shall apply.

NSSLAs that are unable to transmit via e-mail may submit the DET and its accompanying scanned CP using any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed deadline ### to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

11th Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

Important Reminders

a.

### The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission, among others:

i. Failure to use the correct/updated templates ii. I Failure to use an officially registered email address iii. Transmitting to the wrong email address iv. Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date v. Failure to use the prescribed filenames vi. Failure to follow the correct file format

b. Only one (1) DET and its corresponding signed and scanned CP shall be

Cc.

submitted for each applicable reporting period within the prescribed deadline. Submissions containing more than one (1) DET and one (1) CP shall automatically be rejected by the system.

The parallel run involving the submission of both the FRPNSSLA and the Consolidated Statement of Condition and Consolidated Statement of Income and Expenses (CSOC/CSIE) shall be discontinued. Only submission of the FRPNSSLA will be accepted beginning with the 30 September 2020 quarter- end report.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

d. Report submissions that do not conform to the above prescribed procedures shall not be accepted and will be considered non-compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to applicable penalties for late and/or erroneous submission of FRPNSSLA.

For compliance. Digitally signed by Chuchi G. * Fonacier Date: 2020.09.30 10:45:56 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

30 September 2020

Page 3 of 3 