### # M-2021-061

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021- 061

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of the Financial Reporting Package (FRP) through the BSP Financial Institution Portal (FI Portal)

Pursuant to Circular No. 1081' and Circular No. 10617, the following submission guidelines shall be observed beginning report ending 30 November 2021 for Universal, Commercial and Thrift Banks ### and 31 December 2021 for Rural and Cooperative Banks:

Submission Guidelines

1. All Banks shall use the updated Financial Reporting Package Data Entry Template (DET) its corresponding Control Prooflist (CP) and complete set of the validation rules which can be downloaded from www.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting_ templates or may be directly requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through dsareports@bsp.gov.ph. \In requesting the said files, covered institutions shall follow the prescribed format as the subject, [REQUEST] Financial Reporting Package Template.

2. Beginning the covered periods, banks shall continue to submit the updated FRP (Solo and Consolidated basis) DETs and CP through the FI Portal within fifteen (15) banking days from the end of reference month/quarter for SOLO reports and within thirty (30) banking days from end of reference quarter for CONSO reports, if applicable.

1 Amendments to the Regulations Governing the Personal Equity and Retirement Account (PERA) dated 04 March 2020

2 Amendment to the Definition of a Deposit Substitute dated 25 November 2019

## Page 2

3. Banks that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the DETs and CP in any portable storage device (e.g. USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed ### deadline to:

The Officer-In-Charge

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004Manila

4. Report submissions should continue to comply with existing BSP reporting standards. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted, subjected to validation and applicable penalties for reporting violations.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.11.10

14:51:09 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

10 November 2021

Page 2 of 2 