### # M-2021-010

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021 - 010 To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFls)

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of List of Members of the Board of Directors, Trustees, and Officers (LDTO)

Pursuant to Section 137 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and Sections 136-Q, 134-S, 111-N and 134-T of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORBNFI), prescribing the submission of list of the incumbent members of the board of directors, trustees, and officers of BSFIs to the BSP and to minimize the need to submit in hardcopy during this time of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the following guidelines are being issued to facilitate the electronic submission of the LDTO beginning cut-off 31 December 2020.

1. Submission Procedures

a. BSFls shall electronically submit to the BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA), LDTO in Portable Document Format (PDF) duly signed by the authorized officials of the BSFI and the corresponding Excel File of the prescribed Data Entry Template (DET) which can be downloaded from http://www.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting_templates.

b. The PDF of the LDTO-DET and its corresponding Excel File shall be electronically transmitted within 20 banking/business days from the annual election of the board of directors/trustees, as provided in the ### BSFI’s by-laws, to the prescribed email addresses, as follows:

Type of Institution E-mail Address Universal and Commercial Bank (UKB) dsakb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph Thrift Bank (TB) dsatb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph Rural and Cooperative Bank (RCB) dsarb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph Non-Bank Financial Institution dsanbfi-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph

### using the required format for the subject, as follows:

"LDTO <Bank Name>, <Date of Board’s Annual Election>", as illustrated

### below: To : dsakb-clssdto@bsp.gov.ph Subject : LDTO ABC Bank, 31 December 2020

### and using the following prescribed file names:

## Page 2

File File Name File

Format Date Entry Template LDTO xis Date Entry Template LDTO .pdf

c. For Money Service Businesses, Pawnshops, Virtual Currency Exchanges, and Electronic Money Issuers, the submission of the LTDO is only required upon registration and as requested by the supervising BSP department.

d. For BSFls covered by Memorandum No. M-2017-028, only electronic submissions originating from their officially registered email address/es of the BSFls shall be recognized and accepted by the DSA. The acknowledgment receipt for the submitted LDTO, will be sent to the same registered email address/es.

e. Hard copy submission shall not be accepted. Covered BSFls that are unable to transmit electronically may submit the prescribed report in any portable storage device (e.g. USB flashdrive) through messengerial or ### postal services within the prescribed deadline addressed to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

11" Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

2. Important Reminders ### a. The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission, among others:

i. Failure to use the correct/updated templates ii. Failure to use an officially registered email address iii. Transmitting to the wrong email address iv. Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date v. Failure to use the prescribed filenames vi. Failure to the correct file format

b. Only one (1) DET in Excel File and its corresponding signed copy in PDF shall be submitted for each applicable reporting period within the prescribed deadline. Submissions containing more than one (1) DET and one (1) PDF shall automatically be rejected by the system.

c. Report submissions that do not conform with the above-prescribed procedures shall not be accepted and will be considered non-compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to applicable penalties for late and/or erroneous submission of LDTO.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

For compliance. Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.01.19

20:17:47 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

19 January 2021

Page 3 of 3 