### # M-2021-057

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-057

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

Subject : Acceptance and Authentication of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card under the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys)

In line with the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Press Release and Advisories', BSFls are reminded that the PhillD card, in physical or mobile? format, issued under the PhilSys pursuant to Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11055 or the Philippine Identification System Act, shall be accepted, subject to proper authentication, as a sufficient proof of identity.

PhilSys allows both offline and online?’ means of authenticating one’s identity in accordance with Section 5 of RA 11055 and Section 12 of its Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations (RIRR). In its advisory dated 23 August 2021, the PSA clarified that the non-inclusion of a handwritten signature as part of the PhillD was deliberate and aligns with other national ID systems such as India, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam, among others. It intends to promote greater security in transactions through stronger methods of verification and lower risk of forgery, incentivize the use of digital technology and more modern approaches for identity verification and ensure the PhillD remains universally accessible.

For the highest levels of assurance and security, the PhilSys will offer online and offline methods of identity authentication, through the PhillD physical security features, QR code digital verification, biometric verification and SMS one-time password (OTP).

The QR code verification system is expected to be launched before the end of 2021 while the biometric and SMS OTP verification systems will be piloted in 2021 and scaled up through 2022. Meanwhile, in its latest Advisory dated 04 October

Dated 12 August 2021 (Annex A), 23 August 2021 (Annex B) and 04 October 2021 (Annex C) PSA to release mobile PhillD in the form of smartphone application Section 4 of the IRR of RA No. 11055: Offline authentication refers to the process by which the identity of an individual is validated against the information contained in the PhillD by the requesting party. This is further described in the IRR as the presentation of the PhillD and the matching of the data stored in the Quick Response (QR) code on the PhillD (Sec 12, IRR); Online authentication refers to the process by which the identity of an individual is validated real-time against the PhilSys Registry by the requesting party through secured connectivity PSA Advisory dated 23 August 2021.

### WN

ae

## Page 2

2021, the PSA explains, among others, the following offline authentication ### methods:

a. Visual inspection of the physical security features of the PhillD card (to determine whether it is authentic and the demographic information and photo on the card have been tampered) combined with comparing the data printed on the card with the data in the QR code (which can be read by any device with a camera or scanner); and

b. Cryptographic verification of the digitally signed demographic information in the QR code through the PhilSys website and making public keys available to relying parties to integrate cryptographic verification in their applications. The PSA will provide the URL for the PhillD QR Code Verification website once it is launched.

While the online authentication and the cited cryptographic verification methods are still being developed and not yet available, relying parties, such as BSFls, can administer or implement the physical/visual verification, as described under item (a) above, of the physical security features of the PhillD, which are superior to a handwritten signature, and the same qualifies as an "offline authentication" and is already in compliance with the procedures of R.A. No. 11055.

### Accordingly, pursuant to R.A. 11055 and its RIRR, all BSFIS are:

1. Reminded to accept the PhillD, subject to proper authentication, as a sufficient proof of identity without requiring another ID. The PSA reiterated in its Advisory dated 04 October 2021 that refusal to accept the PhillD for purposes of identification has corresponding penalties; and

2. Directed to include the PhillD in their list of valid IDs displayed on their (a) counters and/or at the public entrance of their establishment, if applicable (i.e., counters/windows/entrances); and (b) official websites, social media handles, and other consumer information channels.

For guidance and strict implementation.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.10.21 16:15:21 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

21 October 2021

Att: a/s

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

### PRESS RELEASE

PSA urges acceptance of National ID; more agencies enjoin support

uo"

Date of Release: 12 August 2021 Reference No. 2021-344

As the agency leading the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys) implementation, the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) calls on government bodies and private entities to accept the national ID or the Philippine Identidication (PhillD) cards in transactions in line with Republic Act No. 11055 otherwise known as the PhilSys Act.

“The PSA, together with other entities involved in the success of the PhilSys program, urges agencies and establishments to make transacting easier and safer for our fellow Filipinos by accepting their PhillD as a valid proof of identity. This will bring us closer to our goal of achieving a digital economy and society for the Philippines,” said PSA Undersecretary Dennis S. Mapa, Ph.D., National Statistician and Civil Registrar General.

With PSA gradually ramping up its efforts for the first two steps of the PhilSys Registration, Undersecretary Mapa underscores the importance of accepting the PhillD as more Filipinos queue to register.

The PSA released an advisory on 29 May 2021 calling on the public acceptance of the national ID as valid proof of identity in government and private transactions.

In response to this, partners of the PhilSys program have extended their support for the PhillD. The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) released separate memoranda encouraging the use of PhillD in official transactions under their agencies.

DILG’s memorandum also emphasized the significance of the PhillD in its role to streamline information and transactions, whether in government or private establishments, by providing Filipinos a single proof of identification that no longer requires any other supporting document.

The Philippine Postal Corporation (PHLPost), PSA’s partner in delivering the physical PhillD cards, also released Circular No. 21-51, dated 22 June 2021, Meng PSA Complex, East Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 1101 [On

Telephone: (632) 8938-5267 www.psa.gov.ph

### ANNEX A

## Page 4

stating that the PhillD may already be used as a valid identification document in all Post Office transactions.

Further, the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) has released a similar advisory endorsing the PhillD in passport applications and other consular service-related transactions.

According to Republic Act No. 11055 otherwise known as the PhilSys Act, the PhillD card shall serve as the official government-issued identification document of cardholders in dealing with all national government agencies (NGAs), local government units (LGUs), government-owned or controlled corporations (GOCCs), government financial institutions (GFls), State Universities and Colleges (SUCs), and all private sector entities. PhillD shall be accepted, subject to proper authentication, as a sufficient proof of identity.

Moreover, under Section 19 of the Act, any person or entity who will refuse to accept or recognize the PhillD or PhilSys Number (PSN) as the only official identification of the holder, without just and sufficient cause, shall be fined an amount equivalent to PhP 500,000.00.

PhilSys allows both offline and online means of authenticating one’s identity in accordance with Section 5 of the Act and the Section 12 of the Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Act. To verify the authenticity of PhillDs, relying parties of PhilSys may perform physical inspections based on the covert security features of the ID and scanning of the QR code. Find out more about the security features of the PhillD here.

For online authentication, PSA aims to roll out the PhillD QR Code Verification System later this year, which enables users to verify the authenticity of the data encoded in the QR code of PhillDs.

Meanwhile, PSA is also set to launch the mobile PhillD, an alternative version of the physical PhillD card, which aims to accelerate the use of the PhilSys. This is in line with the goal of PhilSys to propel the country to a fully digital economy and society.

For the latest on PhilSys, visit the official PhilSys website (www.psa.gov.ph/philsys) or Facebook page (www.facebook.com/PSAPhilSysOfficial/). You may also reach the PhilSys Registry Office via hotline number 1388 or e-mail at info@philsys.gov.ph. For the online Step 1 Registration, kindly go to https://register.philsys.gov.ph.

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson - PhilSys Registry Office LOE~ 2021.08.12

17:37:21 +08'00'

## Page 5

### 3 REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

### ~ PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

Reference No. 21-PRO-FGD-08-072

### ADVISORY

### TO : ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, PRIVATE ### BUSINESSES, AND THE PUBLIC

SUBJECT : Clarification on PhillD security and verification features and the non-inclusion of handwritten signatures

DATE 23 August 2021

This advisory is being issued to enlighten relying parties and the public on the non-inclusion of a registrant’s handwritten signature in the physical Philippine Identification (PhillD) card.

Through Republic Act No. 11055 and its technical design, the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys) aims to accelerate the Philippines’ transition to a digital economy, society, and government by allowing Filipinos to do paperless, cashless, and presenceless transactions.

Achieving this goal entails building the PhilSys as a digital and interoperable platform which enables public and private sector service providers to transform their systems and processes into more modern and digital approaches for identity verification and completion of forms. Traditional processes depend on paper forms, photocopies of IDs, and wet signatures, which are prone to inefficiency and fraud. Handwritten signatures are easily forged and cannot be easily verified. Furthermore, there are some Filipinos who cannot make handwritten signatures, which is why some forms offer an alternative of a thumbmark.

The non-inclusion of a handwritten signature as part of the PhillD was deliberate and aligns with other national ID systems, such as in India, ### Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam, among others. It intends to: 1. Promote greater security in transactions through stronger methods of verification and lower risks of forgery; 2. Incentivize the use of digital technologies and more modern approaches for identity verification; and

Mapa Claire Dennis

LOé~ Sioson 2021.08.23 13:56:01

+08'00' s ue PSA Complex, East Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 1101

Telephone: (632) 8938-5267 Www.psa.gov.ph

### ANNEX B

## Page 6

Reference No. 21-PRO-FGD-08-072 Subject: Clarification on PhillD security and verification features and the non-inclusion of handwritten signatures Date: 23 August 2021

3. Ensure the PhillD remains universally accessible and usable for all Filipinos.

For the highest levels of assurance and security, the PhilSys will offer the ### following online and offline methods of identity authentication:

e PhillD physical security features. The anti-tamper features of the PhillD card, such as the ghost image of the bearer, guilloche design and the diffractive optically variable image device, are some of the most sophisticated and secure in the Philippines.

e QR code digital verification. This is the scanning of the QR code through the PhilSys app and website and using asymmetric key cryptography to validate whether the client's demographic information is correct and has not been tampered with.

e Biometric verification. This is the automated and real time online matching of a fingerprint, facial, or iris against what is contained in the client's record in the PhilSys Registry.

e SMS one-time password (OTP). This is the automated online matching using the mobile number in the client’s record in the PhilSys, as provided during Step 2 Registration.

The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) acknowledges that there will be challenges and inertia as service providers transition from traditional practice to the digital method of identity verification enabled by the PhilSys. PhilSys allows both offline and online means of authenticating one’s identity in accordance with Section 5 of the Act and the Section 12 of the Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Act. While the QR code, biometric, and SMS OTP authentication methods are yet to be fully operational, service providers or individual staff may still consider doing traditional methods of identity verification and may inadvertently request an ID with a handwritten signature. However, service providers can immediately begin using the physical security features, which are superior to a handwritten signature, for their offline verification.

On the PSA’s part, the QR code, biometric, and SMS OTP verification systems are currently being developed and tested to ensure maximum security, scalability, and functionality. The QR code verification system is expected to be launched before the end of 2021. The biometric and SMS OTP verification systems will be piloted in 2021 and scaled up throughout 2022.

In addition, the PSA is continuing its efforts on the following: (1) to collaborate with regulators such as the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to urge

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.08.23 13:56:13 +08'00'

Page 2 of 3

## Page 7

Reference No. 21-PRO-FGD-08-072 Subject: Clarification on PhillD security and verification features and the non-inclusion of handwritten signatures Date: 23 August 2021

all service providers to accept the PhillD without requiring the presentation of other IDs, and (2) to campaign and educate stakeholders on the security features and other specifications of the PhillD for easier visual inspection.

For your information and guidance.

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.08.23 13:56:23 +08'00'

DENNIS S. MAPA, Ph.D.

Undersecretary National Statistician and Civil Registrar General

### RPB

Page 3 of 3

## Page 8

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 ### ADVISORY

### TO > ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND THE PUBLIC

### THRU :) CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

SUBJECT : Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card

DATE : 04 October 2021

In relation to the Philippines Statistics Authority’s (PSA) previous advisory dated 19 May 2021 regarding the acceptance of the Philippine Identification (PhillD) card as official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities, please be advised that this advisory is being issued to provide additional information on the authentication and use of the card.

Specifically, this advisory aims to inform the public and all government agencies, who are potential relying parties of the Philippine Identification ### System (PhilSys), on the following matters:

1. Guidance on methods for relying parties to verify the identity of a registered person presenting a PhillD, including visual inspection of the physical security features, cryptographic verification of the digitally signed demographic information in the Quick Response (QR) code, and how to qualify this as an offline authentication in accordance with Republic Act (RA) No. 11055 otherwise known as the PhilSys Act; and

2. Specifications for the demographic information in the QR code, which enable relying parties to use this for automated data entry,

such as pre-filling forms. PSA Complex, East Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 1101

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson LOé~ 2021.10.11 17:25:00 +08'00' Telephone: (632) 8938-5267

### M AB System sp =] TUVRheinland oh WWwW.psa.gov.ph CERTIFIED I Jo

ww.tuv.com ### ID 9108640991

### ANNEX C

## Page 9

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card Date: 04 October 2021

Under RA No. 11055, the PhilSys aims to eliminate the need to present other forms of identification when transacting with the government and the private sector. The PhillD, in physical or mobile’ format, and the PhilSys Numbers (PSN) or any of its derivatives such as the PhillD Card Number (PCN), subject to authentication, shall be a sufficient proof of identity. Thus, relying parties which include national government agencies (NGAs), local government units (LGUs), government-owned and controlled corporations (GOCCs), government financial institutions (GFls), educational institutions, and all private entities are mandated by law to accept the same for purposes of identification.

We reiterate that any person or entity who shall refuse without just and sufficient cause on the acceptance, acknowledgement and/or recognition of the PhillD or PSN, subject to authentication, as the sufficient proof of identification of the holder/possessor shall be liable for violation of RA No. 11055.?

The revised Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of RA No. 11055, ### provides for two types of authentications:

1. Offline authentication refers to the process in which the identity of an individual is validated against the information contained on the PhillD by the relying party. This is further described in the IRR as the presentation of the PhillD and the matching of the data stored in the QR code on the PhillD.

2. Online authentication refers to the process in which the identity of an individual is validated real-time against the PhilSys Registry by the relying party through secured connectivity.2 The PSA is currently in the process of developing and piloting fingerprint, face, iris, SMS One Time Password, and demographic verification. Further guidance will be issued for this type of authentication.

Part I. Methods of Verifying Identity Using a PhillD Card

Method 1: Visual Inspection of Physical Security Features of the PhillD Card

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:25:11 +08'00'

1 PSA to release mobile PhillD in the form of smartphone application 2 Section 19 of RA No. 11055 3 Section 4 (a) of the Revised IRR of RA No. 11055 Page 2 of 5

## Page 10

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillID) Card Date: 04 October 2021

The physical security features of the PhillD card can be assessed to determine whether it is authentic and the demographic information and

photo on the card have been tampered.

When combined with comparing the data printed on the card with the data in the QR code (which can be read by any device with a camera or scanner), this visual inspection qualifies as an ‘offline authentication’ under the IRR for RA 11055, as amended.

For reference, attached as Annex A is the Guidelines on Validating Overt and Covert Security Features of the PhillD.

Method 2: Cryptographic Verification of the Digital Signature in the QR Code through the PhilSys Website

The demographic information in the PhillD QR code has been digitally- signed by the PSA using the Edwards-curve Digital Signature Algorithm (EdDSA). This provides the ability for relying parties to use asymmetric cryptography i.e., the public key corresponding to the private key used to sign the data in order to verify with high levels of assurance if the information has been issued by the PSA (as contained in the PhilSys Registry) and has not been tampered with.

The PSA has developed a PhillD QR Code Verification (PQRCV) website to use public-private key cryptography to allow relying parties to verify if the data in the QR Code has been issued by the PSA and has not been tampered with. Any computer or smart device with a camera and internet browser with internet access can use the PQRCV website. PSA will provide the URL once it is launched. Although this method is delivered through an internet website, it qualifies as an ‘offline authentication’ under the IRR for RA No. 11055, as amended.

To verify a PhillD card, the user will need to access the PQRCV website and provide permission to access the integrated or connected camera. When a PhillD’s QR code is scanned using camera, three processes will be done.

First, the website will check if the PhillD is active or revoked. Second, the embedded public key (corresponding with the private key used to digitally sign PhillD QR code data) will decrypt the digital signature embedded in the QR code. The result is a hash of the QR code data initially generated before printing the QR code onto the PhillD card. Third, the website will

Mapa Claire Dennis Page 3 of 5 Sioson

### LOE~ 2021.10.11 17:25:18 +08'00'

## Page 11

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card Date: 04 October 2021

generate a second hash of the QR code data. If the first and second hashes match, then the QR code data has been issued by the PSA and has not been tampered with (i.e., it is correct). The website will display the data from the QR code, and this can be matched with the data printed on the PhillD card. The photo and ghost image can be used to determine whether the person presenting the PhillD is the true owner.

The following are the three possible responses to scanning the QR code ### using the PQRCV website:

PhilSys QR Code Successfully The data in the QR code has been Verified issued by PSA and is correct.

PhilSys QR Code Not Recognized I Either the QR code is damaged/unreadable or the

information encoded has been tampered with.

PhillD Card has been Revoked or I The PhillD card has been revoked is Inactive and is not active (only available with an internet connection).

Method 3: Integrating Cryptographic Verification of the Digital Signature in the QR Code into Relying Party Applications

The PSA will make the public key(s) available corresponding to the private key(s) used to sign the data in the PhillD QR codes to relying parties so they can integrate cryptographic verification (i.e., the same process described above, except without the revocation check) into their own applications, including for offline use. The intention is to enable relying parties to accommodate PhilSys-enabled verification into their systems and processes with minimal disruption and maximum opportunities for innovation. This method qualifies as an ‘offline authentication’ under the IRR for RA No. 11055, as amended.

Part Il. Specifications for the PhillD QR Code

To further enable acceptance of the PhillD and to create the possibility of automation, relying parties can read and act upon data stored in a QR code printed on the back of each card.

Mapa Claire Dennis

LOE~ Sioson Page 4of5 2021.10.11 17:25:24 +08'00'

## Page 12

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card Date: 04 October 2021

The QR code conforms to ISO/IEC 18004:2015 and is readable by consumer QR code-capable equipment such as mobile phones, tablets, and barcode scanners.

Data represented in the QR code is not encrypted so it may be read by any software that is able to successfully read standard QR code formats.

Data is encoded in JSON format for ease of processing by applications and the integrity of data is checked by verifying a digital signature‘ included in the JSON data packet.

Attached as Annex B are the Attributes and Corresponding Description/Use for the PhillID QR Code JSON Format.

While the online authentication is still not available, physical verification and other offline authentication shall be administered and the same is already in compliance with the procedures of RA No. 11055. Refusal to accept PhillD for purposes of identification has corresponding penalties.

Further, information provided in this document is aimed at providing the relying parties better understanding on the features of the PhillD card to further its acceptance for greater inclusion, and promote ease of doing business for Filipinos, especially in the vulnerable sector.

For your information, and guidance. Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:25:29 +08'00'

DENNIS S. MAPA, Ph.D.

Undersecretary

National Statistician and Civil Registrar General

### RPB/EPA/ERP/MRPL

### Attachments: 1. Annex A - Guidelines on Validating Overt and Covert Security Features of the PhillD 2. Annex B - Attributes and Corresponding Description/Use for the PhillID QR Code JSON Format 3. PSA Advisory dated 19 May 2021 re: Philippine Identification (PhillD) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:25:36 +08'00'

4 The digital signature will be generated using EdDSA, a Schnorr-based digital signature scheme that functions over elliptic curves. Page 5 of 5

## Page 13

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01

Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card

Date: 04 October 2021

Annex A

Guidelines on Validating Overt and Covert Security Features of the PhillD

### SECURITY FEATURES

### HOW TO VALIDATE

Overt Features

I Guilloche Design

I The background design of the PhillD pre- personalized cards was created to portray

I the Philippine flag. With the use of naked

I eyes or of a magnifying tool, the Philippine

I flag is composed of small letters grouped together to read,

### Red print: ### I REPUBLIKA NG PILIPINAS

### Blue print: ### PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:25:42 +08'00'

If viewed closely, small or hidden texts (PSA) must be seen with clarity at high resolution or, at least, clearly readable without any smudges or blurredness.

v

Page 1 of 5

## Page 14

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card Date: 04 October 2021

### SECURITY FEATURES

### HOW TO VALIDATE

Overt Features

Official Logos and Seal

Logos and seals represent the institution or government agency who authored the project and spearheaded its implementation. Considering print size, the details of logos and seals must be printed correctly and accurately.

ee if Fine details are printed * F accurately.

### A]

### ANIC, , a ib

% vy. abet? rd

Correct swatches of colors are used.

Small texts or characters are readable using magnifying tools.

Personalized Data

(Photo and personal information)

Personal information is engraved into one of the layers of the card using laser engraving technology. On the other hand, I photos printed on the cards are created both by laser engraving (grayscale) and 'drop-on-demand (DOD) technology I (colored). The grayscale photo should be _ matched and aligned with the colored

photo,

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:25:49 +08'00'

These logos and seals consist of small details such as texts and images which must be printed clearly at high resolution. Any deviation (i.e, misprint, unregistered color, and unreadable characters) in the official logo and seal design will render it doubtful subject to verification if the deviation was caused by printing error during card production.

Print is not correctly registered.

Az 1 i®;

chTT ICY

x“ Different swatches of colors are used.

%

 %

Small details such as letters or characters are not readable.

The DOD print may wear off when exposed to strong chemicals. But due to laser engraving technology, the personalized facial features of the data holder would be retained on the card. A data is tampered if the identity does not match.

=

Page 2 of 5

## Page 15

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card Date: 04 October 2021

### SECURITY FEATURES

### HOW TO VALIDATE

Overt Features

Diffractive Optically Variable Image Device (DOV/D)

The aforementioned security features (i-e., guilloche design, logos and _ seals, personalized data) are usually done using commercial printers and personalization machines. One feature that makes a card unique among other issued cards is in the type of DOVID used.

PhillD card is embedded with a DOVID security patch which is specifically made for the PhillD Project. The DOVID security patch is a holographic — security enforcement tool intended to shield the cards against forgery of the photograph and personal data, as it is not possible to fabricate or copy a DOVID through standard printing processes. Likewise, the security patch provides added protection against card tampering and even offers multi-level optical security features against

counterfeiting. The holographic features I

provided by the DOVID security patch cannot be copied or reproduced using available reprographic techniques (i.e.

I photography, digital/mechanical printing, I and scanning) making it a highly effective

Loe~

feature for counterfeit deterrence and security authentication. Unlike other DOVID foil patches, PhillD DOVID offers both transparent and metallized features without compromising — security

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:25:57 +08'00'

and I visibility of information/design on the cards. I

Fitst Level Features

DOVID security patch can be validated by tilting the image from left or right relative to the viewing angle, or by rotating in its plane by 90 degrees or 180 degrees. By doing this, fine line movement and dynamic color can be observed on the patch.

Fine line movement

Dynamic color and color effect

With the aid of a high-scale magnifying glass, the characters, “PHL” can be seen surrounding the sun symbol.

Microtext colorful movement

Using a microscope, a nanopic [baybayin, “pi"] can be seen at the center of the stars, and nanotext “PILIPINAS” can be seen on I the patch at the center of the “paybayin” I symbol.

y, *, ### A

Page 3 of 5

## Page 16

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01

Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card

Date: 04 October 2021

### SECURITY FEATURES HOW TO VALIDATE

Overt Features

Covert Features

Optically Variable Ink

PhillD cards has an optically variable print “PHL” that changes color fram pink to green when viewed at a 45-degree angle.

I Microprint

Texts printed at a micro- scale to conceal the code and title. These texts require

I accurate registration and print to ensure I that the code and title are readable at

I micro-level.

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:26:04 +08'00"

Loe~

Further, DOVID security patches with chipped off carriers will render it doubtful subject to verification if the defect was caused by error(s) during card production.

PhillD card is rejected if part of the DOVID design was chipped off.

Tilt the PhillD card at 45-degree angle and

check if the print “PHL” changes in color from pink to green.

### PHL =~

_ With the use of a magnifying glass or lenses, _ the microprint should be easily seen with _ accuracy and clarity.

' ph jokavireatedalstsrénd\ ### LA ASREPUBLIK

\

ir ’p

Page 4 of 5

## Page 17

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillID) Card Date: 04 October 2021

### SECURITY FEATURES HOW TO VALIDATE Overt Features I Latent Image Follow closely how lines are grouped using I The latent image is an array of fine lines a magnifying glass or lens. Latent image that makes up an image or character. printed at the back of the card reads,

### SS ### LL? ~

Latent image can be found above the Date “PhillD”

of Issue field.

### RAS NV SVS a VAC VV

### AG Q

“UV Fluorescent Images aaa "Images at the back of the card that glow

### _ When exposed directly under an ultraviolet under the presence of a UV light:

I light, the card exposes hidden images due e BSP Seal

_ to fluorescing inks. I e PhilSys Registry Logo

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:26:11

+08'00'

Page 5 of 5

## Page 18

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card Date: 04 October 2021

Annex B Attributes and Corresponding Description/Use for the PhillD QR Code

JSON Format

### Data relating to issuance of the PhillD (credential data Part-A):

Attribute Description / Use

Datelssued The month, day, and year when the batch was created. A batch refers to the collection of records of registered persons before printing.

Issuer The issuer of the PhillD. Currently, this should only be set to “PSA” representing the Philippines Statistics Authority.

### Data relating to the subject of the PhillD (credential data Part-B):

Attribute Description / Use

Suffix A name suffix that follows a person's legal name and provides additional information about the person.

IName The part of a person’s legal name that identifies the family to which he/she belongs.

fName Refers to a name or nickname given to a person which may consist of one or more names in addition to the middle and last names.

mName The part of a legal name between the first name and surname. In the Philippines, this is commonly the surname of a person’s mother.

sex This refers to the biological and _ physiological characteristics that define men and women.

BF Best Fingerprint Label Refers to the two clearest and most concise fingerprint captures of the applicant.

DOB Date of birth

Mapa Claire Dennis Page 1 of 3 Sioson

### LOE~ 2021.10.11 17:26:18 +08'00'

## Page 19

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillD) Card

Date: 04 October 2021

Attribute Description / Use

Date of birth in Month, Date, Year format POB The city/municipality and province a person was born. PCN A randomly generated 16-digit unique number printed

on the face of the PhillD.

### Data provided to check the integrity of the data presented:

Attribute Description / Use

alg The digital signature scheme used for the PhillD. PhilSys Registry uses the EdDSA.

signature A unique electronic signature based on_ the

demographic information of the registered person recorded in the PhilSys Registry.

The signature data is Base64 encoded.

The signature is computed based on Part-A and Part-B of the credential data.

Therefore, to verify the integrity of the credential data contained within the QR code the signature must be decrypted using a Public Key provided by the PSA and a new hash created using demographic data presented in the QR code (i.e. Part-A and Part-B described above encrypted using the Public Key). If the signature decrypts successfully and the signature and the generated hash match then the integrity of the data can be inferred.

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:26:26 +08'00'

Page 2 of 3

## Page 20

Reference No. 21UCDMS-OANS-10-01 Subject: Authentication and Use of Philippine Identification (PhillID) Card Date: 04 October 2021

### Example QR code data:

Here is the sample JSON structure of the QR code.

{ "Datelssued": "31 May 2021", "Issuer": "PSA", "subject": { ### "Suffix": "", "IName": "Mingiz", "fName": "Plasti", "mName": "Empre", "sex": "Female", "BF": "[1,10]", "DOB": "March 01,

### 1947", "POB": "Bindoy (Payabon),Negros Oriental", "PCN": ### "1234-6015-6789-5037" }, "alg": "EDDSA", "signature": "bvx1vw9QWx9V/CUISdCOHED9+aZROFEBkK3GCfdwb2BOpani1nvLcst0 AY CyF 1ArBcaVOXFAJSCMhRzyHUCeaé6iDw=="}

Mapa Claire Dennis Sioson 2021.10.11 17:26:43 +08'00'

00'

Page 3 of 3

## Page 21

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

### PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

### ADVISORY ### TO : ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND THE PUBLIC ### THRU : CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION SUBJECT : _ Philippine Identification (PhillID) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities DATE > 19 May 2021

Please be advised that as of 01 May 2021, the Philippines Statistics Authority (PSA) launched the third and final step of the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys) mass registration: distribution of Philippine Identification (PhillD) cards and PhilSys Numbers (PSN) to successful registrants.

Under Republic Act No. 11055 or the Philippine Identification System Act, ' the PhillD card shall serve as the official government-issued identification document of cardholders in dealing with all national government agencies (NGAs), local government units (LGUs), government-owned or controlled corporations (GOCCs), government financial institutions (GFls), State Universities and Colleges (SUCs), and all private sector entities. As such, the PhillD card shall be accepted as sufficient proof of identity, without the need to present any other identification documents.

To further stress the importance of the above-mentioned provisions, the Act penalizes any person or entity who without just and sufficient cause

refuses to accept, acknowledge and/or recognize the PhillD card as

the only official identification of the holder/possessor with a fine in the amount of Five hundred thousand pesos (PhP 500,000.00). Finally, if

1 Sections 6-7 LON

PSA Complex, East Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 1101 Telephone: (632) 8938-5267 www.psa.gov.ph

## Page 22

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

Subject: Philippine Identification (PhillD) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities

Date: 19 May 2021

the violation is committed by government official or employee, the penalty shall include perpetual absolute disqualification from holding any public office or employment in the government, including any GOCCs, and their subsidiaries.

Please find in the attached Annex an illustration of the PhillD card and description of relevant security features, which can be used to determine its authenticity.

Furthermore, in line with the Government’s commitment to personal data protection, tokenization? of the PSN has been adopted as a key privacy- by-design and security strategy of the PhilSys. To this end, please be advised that the permanent and irrevocable 12-digit PSN is microprinted on the back face of a registered person’s PhillD, which allows the registered person to retrieve their PSN when needed but also, importantly, to prevent others from being able to easily see or capture the PSN. A 16- digit PhillD Card Number (PCN) — essentially a public and replaceable token of the PSN that is valid for the life of the PhillD card — is printed conspicuously on the front face of the PhillD card, and is intended to be used for authentication purposes.

Registered persons are advised not to use their PSN for transactions but instead to use their PCN. Similarly, government agencies and private entities should not request or seed the PSN. The PhilSys will provide another form of token to be stored in databases of relying parties that are integrated with the PhilSys, subject to guidelines that will be issued by the PSA in the near future.

Digital authentication and e-KYC using fingerprint, iris, facial, SMS-based One Time Passwords or demographic verification will be launched by PSA towards the end of 2021. These PhilSys-enabled Services will allow identity to be verified even without the need for a physical PhillD, using the PCN or other tokens.

Loe

? Tokenization refers to the substitution of a sensitive data element (e.g. a permanent and unique identifier such as the PSN) by non-sensitive equivalents, i.e. a token (e.g. PCNs), that have no exploitable value by themselves and can be linked back to the sensitive data element when needed and revoked or rotated when needed.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 23

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

Subject: Philippine Identification (PhillD) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and private entities

Date: 19 May 2021

With this, all concerned government agencies, the private sector and the general public are advised that PhillDs issued by the PSA shall be the official proof of identity of the cardholder in dealing with all NGAs, LGUs, GOCCs, government GFls, SUCs, and all private sector entities.

For your information and guidance.

CLAIRE DENNIS S. MAPA, Ph.D. Undersecretary National Statistician and Civil Registrar General

### DNSLM/MBG/ECQ/RDF

### Attachment:

1. Annex A — illustration of the PhillD card and description of relevant security features

Page 3 of 3

## Page 24

Reference No. 21CRS02-05-0798

Subject: Philippine Identification (PhillD) Cards as the official proof of identity for transactions with government and

private entities Date: 19 May 2021

Annex A - Illustration of the PhillD card and description of relevant

security features

### FRONT

### REPUBLIKA NG PILIPINAS Republic of the Philippines-

y Apelyido/Last'Name ### “= DELA CRUZ

5dr NB 'y Naan = © Mga Pangalan/Given Names

JUAN: I seer

Gitnang Apelyido/Middle Name ### MARTINEZ

: ‘Petsa ng Kapanganakan/Date of Birth ### A UARY 01, 1990

~Tirahan/Address or 7; . eee ### 833 SISA ST., BRGY 526, ZO SAMPALOK, MANILA CITY, METRO MANILA a

))

Araw ng pagkakaloob/Dat of

### I 14 JUNE 2019 Kasarian/Sex 4 “-Uring Dugo/Blood Type ® Ne ‘ oO » Wt s

“Kalagayang Sibil/Marital Status SINGLE Sel

Lugar ng Kapangan

### QUEZON CITY,

000010123456

‘ oP vive un nnn tun uae

Www.psa,gov-f af

Overt Features

1 I Republic of the Philippines Seal

2 I Card Headers

3 I PhilSys Registry Office Seal

4 I PhilSys Card Number

5 I Personalized data and labels

6 Guilloche Design

7 I Personalized picture

8 I Ghost image

9 Diffractive Optically Variable Image Device

Covert Features

Guilloche Design small texts and hidden texts

Back Card Design

Overt Features

1. I Guilloche Design 2. I Personalized data and labels

3 I QRCode Card Serial Number Covert Features

5 I Latent image

6 I UV fluorescent images

PSN Microprint

Guilloche Design small texts and hidden texts

[On Page 1 of 1 