### # M-2020-024

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. 2020-024

To : All Concerned Banks

Subject : Additional Eligible Credit Instruments, Revised Loan Documents and Availment Procedures for the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Rediscount Facilities

The Monetary Board (MB), in its Resolution No. 500 dated 07 April 2020, approved the acceptance of the following credits for rediscounting to the BSP until 19 May 2020, subject to further extension as may be approved by the MB, as additional response in providing the needed liquidity to banks and to support and protect the enterprises and industries amidst the economic threat of the Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic crisis in the Philippines pursuant to the relevant provisions of Republic Act (RA) No. 11469 or the “Bayanihan to Heal as One Act” approved on ### 24 March 2020 and its Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR):

1. Under Exporters’ Dollar and Yen Rediscount Facility (EDYRF) - United States Dollar (USD) and Japanese Yen (JPY)-denominated credit instruments related to the economic activities enumerated in Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) Memorandum Circular No. 20-08 dated 20 March 2020, except for loans to banks and capital markets; provided that, these credits are booked under the regular banking unit of the rediscounting bank and are compliant with the requirements on eligible papers and collaterals under Section 282 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB); provided further, that the said USD and JPY-denominated credits are only to those end-user borrowers (EUBs) operating during the enhanced community quarantine.

2. Under the Peso Rediscount Facility and EDYRF - Credit instruments compliant with the requirements on eligible papers and collaterals under Section 282 of the MORB, which were granted mandatory 30-day grace period pursuant to Memorandum No. 2020-017 dated 01 April 2020 and Section 4(aa) of RA No. 11469 and its IRR, subject to the submission of certification signed by the authorized officer/s of the bank stating that the maturities of said credit instruments were extended pursuant to RA No. 11469 and its IRR?.

For rediscounting of credit instruments in Item No. 1 above, which may not be performed through the Electronic Rediscounting System, the application may be submitted to and processed by BSP - Department of Loans and Credit following the procedures set forth in Attachment “1”.

## Page 2

Moreover, Peso-denominated credit instruments related to economic activities allowed to operate by the DTI during the enhanced community quarantine of Luzon, except for loans to banks and capital markets, are allowed to be rediscounted under the Peso Rediscount Facility as long as these are compliant with the requirements on eligible papers and collaterals under Section 282 of the MORB.

Furthermore, upon effectivity of this Memorandum, all rediscounting banks are required to submit the following for all subsequent availments under the BSP Peso ### Rediscount Facility and EDYRF:

1. Prior to drawdown —

a.

Signed and notarized Supplemental Rediscounting Line Agreement? (Attachment “2”), which contains, among others, an undertaking by the rediscounting banks to be submitted on or before the date set in the notice by the BSP; the consent of the EUBs to the possible endorsement or similar commercial transactions of their Promissory Notes (PNs) with the BSP; and provision that the rediscounting bank may be required by the BSP to submit government securities and/or other bank assets against which the BSP may enforce payment, in the event of default; and

Certified true copy/ies of the PN between the bank and the EUB with endorsement?;

2. After release of the proceeds —

Promissory Note? in favor of the BSP (Attachment “3”); and

3. Upon notice by BSP -

Certified true copy/ies of the consent of the EUBs to the possible endorsement or similar commercial transactions of their PNs with the BSP ### with the following stipulation, as referred to in 1.a above?:

“In the event that the PN of the borrower is subsequently indorsed, assigned, transferred, or otherwise becomes subject of a_ similar commercial transaction by the participating bank with another institution, the borrower automatically gives his/her/its consent thereto and fully understands and agrees that his/her/its PN and its underlying collaterals shall serve as security for the obligation of the participating bank with such other institution; that accordingly, the endorsee, holder, transferee, assignee, or other institution, shall be entitled to directly proceed against the borrower under this note to collect the participating bank’s obligations, in accordance with such remedies as may be applicable under the law.”

1 To be submitted following the procedures in Memorandum No. M-2020-016 dated 31 March 2020. 2 To be submitted following the procedures in Item No. 4 of Attachment “1” of this Memorandum.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

This memorandum shall take effect immediately until subsequent notice of revocation from the BSP.

For strict compliance.

### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

Atts.: A/S

8 April 2020

Subject: Additional Eligible Credit Instruments, Revised Loan Documents and Availment Procedures for the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Rediscount Facilities

Page 3 of 3

## Page 4

Attachment 1

### PROCEDURES FOR AVAILMENTS FROM THE EXPORTERS’ DOLLAR AND YEN ### REDISCOUNTING FACILITY (EDYRF) THROUGH MANUAL PROCESSING

This set of procedures is intended for the temporary processing of rediscounting loan

applications under the EDYRF of eligible United States Dollar (USD) and Japanese Yen (JPY)- denominated credit instruments, which may not be performed through the Electronic Rediscounting System (eRS).

1.

2.

Qualified banks shall submit a scanned copy of a letter request (duly signed by the authorized officer/s of the Bank) indicating the amount to be borrowed in USD or JPY and purpose of availment thereof to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas - Department of Loans and Credit (BSP-DLC) through DLCmail@bsp.gov.ph and ### eRediscounting @bsp.gov.ph, addressed to:

### MS. CARYL T. VALDEZ

Director

Department of Loans and Credit Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

A. Mabini St., Malate

1004 Metro Manila

The letter request mentioned in Item No. 1 shall be accompanied by the scanned ### copies of the following documents:

a. List of Accounts for Rediscounting — should be properly filled out by the bank in accordance with the attached template (Schedule “A”); and must be signed by appropriate bank officers (i.e. the preparer, reviewer and approver); and

b. Promissory note/s (PN/s) between the bank and the end-user borrower (EUB) with endorsement, and if notified by BSP, together with the express consent of the EUB to the possible endorsement or similar commercial transactions of their PNs with the BSP, if such consent was made in a separate document.

Once the loan application is approved, BSP-DLC shall notify the Bank through email of the crediting of rediscounting proceeds to the Bank’s foreign correspondent bank account, as well as the details of approved rediscounting loan (e.g., BSP grant date, due date, interest rate, amount granted, and corresponding PN/s of EUB/s securing the loan).

Thereafter, the Bank shall accomplish the PN in favor of the BSP and have the duly authorized officer/s of the Bank to sign the same prior to notarization. The scanned copy of the notarized PN in favor of the BSP and the Rediscount Schedule (RS) shall be sent to aforementioned email addresses immediately after the PN’s notarization. The RS should be properly filled out by the Bank in accordance with the attached suggested

## Page 5

Attachment 1

template (Schedule “B”) and must be signed by appropriate bank officers (i.e., the preparer, reviewer and approver).

Safekeeping/submission of documents and communications to the BSP-DLC will follow the procedures in Memorandum No. 2020-016 dated 31 March 2020.

The acceptability of the collateral documents including the conditions set forth by the BSP shall be reviewed during post credit verification to be conducted by BSP-DLC. Banks are reminded that any acts/omissions in violation of applicable laws, BSP rules and regulations or misrepresentation by the bank and/or its officer/s will be considered as “Serious offense” subject to appropriate enforcement action/s against the bank and/or its concerned officers pursuant to existing relevant laws and BSP regulations.

### CONTACT PERSONS:

### 1. For rediscounting line concerns: Atty. Elaine C. Calleja — Deputy Director Telephone Number: 8708-7701 local 2411 Email: CallejaEC@bsp.gov.ph

### 2. For loan availment and accounts management concerns: Leah C. Ozar — Deputy Director Telephone Number: 8708-7701 local 2415 Email: LCOzar@bsp.gov.ph

### 3. For eRS-related concerns: Ronald C. Barlan — Manager Telephone Number: 8708-7701 local 2807 Email: rcbarlan@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 6

LUST OF ACCOUNTS FOR REDISCOUNTING Schedule "A" naar vce a aes coterie omice I yy soronr sero I oy ce rriecioatenI Puce I mvoieone I maraxnnw I Seems] ruentac I muvexastncten I tan I ciorscmenreI carn Geert] efor, I Revere I mopwniowton I nosy stots we) rxoneIaerneI none I ApmaterI Agpstaone I AH I ce I aaromecansey I taney ne I armor no I usI "sy" I esoueat I 6S ty Exchange No pee I sors} oer I cheer mourn I pavement vrowt I oe I on a ota en nese "Note: Clu Vto AKare applcable to lars secured by RealEstate Mortgage. ### Preparedby Foviewedy prove:

## Page 7

### NAME OF BANK: ### REDISCOUNT SCHEDULE

Schedule "B"

BSP Loan Details

End-User Borrower's Details

Rediscount Amount Custodian PN IPromissory/Bills ofI Grant/Booked

BSP Application No. Grant Date I Due Date I Currency Address Borrower Due Date

Rate Granted Bank Count I Exchange No. Date

PN/BX Balance I PN/BX Balance ocr/tct

PN/BX Face Loan Value* ‘Type of Collateral Appraisal

when when Loan Value* Lc/PO/SCNo. I Collateral I No./Invoice/ ITax Dec.I Appraisal

‘Amount (in original Loan Purpose I (LC/PO/SC/REM/GI ‘Amount - (in local currency)I

Rediscounted (in I Rediscounted (in (in local currency) ifapplicable I Count INo. whichever! No. I Amount-Land

currenc ¥) is applicable

S/ROPs) Improvement

original currency I local currency)

* 80% of outstanding balance.

We hereby certify that the collateral documents and the related documents evidencing and securing the above rediscounted loans are safely kept in the bank's custody or custodian bank.

### Prepared by: Reviewed by: Approved:

### ‘SIGNATURE OVER PRINTED NAME ‘SIGNATURE OVER PRINTED NAME SIGNATURE OVER PRINTED NAME ### DESIGNATION DESIGNATION DESIGNATION

### ‘Acknowledged receipt by:

### ‘SIGNATURE OVER PRINTED NAME ### DESIGNATION

## Page 8

Attachment 2

### SUPPLEMENTAL REDISCOUNTING LINE AGREEMENT

### This Agreement is made and executed by:

BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS, a government instrumentality created and existing under and by virtue of the provisions of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 7653, as amended by R.A. No. 11211, with principal office at A. Mabini corner P. Ocampo, Sr. Streets, Malate, Manila, represented herein by its [Position Title of Authorized BSP Official], [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BSP OFFICIAL], hereinafter referred to as “BSP”;

-and-

[NAME OF PARTICIPATING BANK], a banking corporation duly organized and existing under Philippine laws, with principal office at [Bank Address], represented herein by its [Position Title of Authorized Bank Official], [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BANK OFFICIAL] and its [Position Title of Authorized Bank Official], [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BANK OFFICIAL], hereinafter referred to as ### “PARTICIPATING BANK”.

WITNESSETH That —

WHEREAS, under Chapter IV, Article IV of R.A. No. 7653, as amended by R.A. No. 11211, BSP, as lender of last resort,? is authorized to extend rediscounts, discounts, loans and advances to banking institutions to influence the volume of credit consistent with the objective of price stability and maintenance of financial stability;

WHEREAS, there is a need to revise current rediscounting procedures and forms for consistency with law and jurisprudence;

WHEREAS, the PARTICIPATING BANK has an approved and existing Rediscounting Line Agreement (RLA) dated with the BSP, with the PARTICIPATING BANK therein denominated as “Borrower”;

WHEREAS, there is a need to execute this agreement as supplement to the RLA as regards credit instruments acceptable for rediscounting, and to amend the RLA insofar as loan documentation, additional collaterals, enforcement against securities, termination, and legal bases for the parties’ obligations;

WHEREAS, this agreement has been approved by the Monetary Board, BSP, in its Resolution No. __ dated ;

WHEREAS, the availments/drawdowns of the PARTICIPATING BANK under the RLA shall continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of the RLA. Further availments/drawdowns of the PARTICIPATING BANK shall be governed by the RLA and this Agreement.

1 Monetary Board Resolution No. 1918 dated 13 December 2019.

### [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY] [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY]

### [NAME OF BSP-DLC ### AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL]

### (NAME OF FIRST WITNESS] /

### [NAME OF SECOND WITNESS]

DLC Form No. 02-001-08 * Version 9 * Updated 2020 Page 1 of 7

## Page 9

1.

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants and stipulations hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto have executed ### this Agreement as follows:

### AVAILMENTS/DRAWDOWNS

1.1

1.2

1.3

The PARTICIPATING BANK shall execute the attached Promissory Note (PN) (Annex “A”) to cover each availment/drawdown. Upon execution of this Agreement, the document originally denominated as PNTRADA in the RLA is hereby changed to PN.

The PARTICIPATING BANK shall endorse the security documents to BSP in accordance with Section 86 of R.A. No. 7653, as amended, and shall submit the original copies of said security documents to BSP. A summary/list of the said security documents shall be attached to and shall form integral part of the PN and this Agreement. The underlying collateral documents shall be covered or included in the endorsement of the security documents to BSP.

The PARTICIPATING BANK shall execute such other documents as may be required by BSP, such as deed of pledge, deed of mortgage, deed of assignment or other documents. Such other documents shall be attached to and shall form integral part of the PN.

### SECURITY DOCUMENTS AS COLLATERAL

2.1

2.2

2.3

2.4

The security documents endorsed by the PARTICIPATING BANK to BSP, including its underlying collaterals, shall secure the payment of the PN of the PARTICIPATING BANK mentioned in the foregoing section.

To be eligible for rediscounting under this Agreement, the PN of the borrower of the PARTICIPATING BANK must contain the express consent of the borrower empowering the PARTICIPATING BANK to endorse the said security document to BSP and for the BSP to directly collect from the PN of the borrower, to foreclose upon the mortgage, and/or to proceed upon other underlying collaterals securing it

The express consent of the borrower mentioned in the preceding paragraph may be in a separate document to be made an integral part of the security document rediscounted to BSP. The PARTICIPATING BANK undertakes to submit such document to BSP on or before the date set in the notice of the BSP, otherwise the PN of the PARTICIPATING BANK shall become immediately due and demandable.

The PARTICIPATING BANK shall ensure that the PN of the borrower and the underlying collaterals shall remain valid and subsisting, and that all documents submitted to the BSP are compliant with the standards as enumerated in this section.

### [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY] [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY]

### (NAME OF BSP-DLC

### {NAME OF FIRST WITNESS] /

### [NAME OF SECOND WITNESS]

### AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL]

DLC Form No. 02-001-08*Version 9* Updated 2020 Page 2 of 7

## Page 10

3.

6.

### OTHER COLLATERAL

3.1

3.2

The BSP may require the PARTICIPATING BANK, upon notice, to submit additional collateral by executing deed of pledge on Government Securities (GS) and/or deed of mortgage on acceptable assets of the PARTICIPATING BANK.

The BSP shall have the option to go after any or all of the collaterals mentioned above.

### PROCEEDS OF PN

4.1 BSP shall credit the proceeds of the PN to the deposit account enrolled by the

PARTICIPATING BANK in connection with the RLA.

### PAYMENT OF THE PN

5.1

5.2

5.3

Upon maturity of the PN of the PARTICIPATING BANK, the BSP is authorized to deduct/debit from the Demand Deposit Account (DDA) of the PARTICIPATING BANK such amount to cover the full payment of the PN mentioned in par. 2.1 of this Agreement. For this purpose, the PARTICIPATING BANK undertakes to maintain sufficient balance in its DDA with the BSP at all times.

Collections before maturity of PN of the PARTICIPATING BANK shall be remitted to the Bangko Sentral within five (5) banking days from said payment. Upon maturity, any and all payments by the borrower under the security documents and its underlying collaterals endorsed to BSP shall be segregated and held in trust by the PARTICIPATING BANK in favor of the BSP and shall be remitted to the BSP without need of demand. This express trust agreement and obligation to remit shall subsist until the full payment of the obligation and shall be deemed extinguished if the DDA of the PARTICIPATING BANK has sufficient fund to cover the outstanding obligation.

In the event that the borrower whose PN was endorsed to the BSP becomes a debtor of the PARTICIPATING BANK under a separate or different account, any and all payment made by the borrower under said account shall, as between the BSP and the PARTICIPATING BANK, be conclusively deemed to apply first to the obligation of the PARTICIPATING BANK with the BSP and shall be covered by the express trust agreement and obligation to remit under the preceding paragraph.

### OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS

6.1

The PARTICIPATING BANK agrees that BSP may collect payments directly from the PN of the borrower. The BSP may also foreclose upon the mortgage of the borrower. The PARTICIPATING BANK hereby irrevocably designates and constitutes the BSP as its Attorney-in-Fact (AIF), with full power and authority to demand and collect payments from the borrower, to foreclose upon the mortgage of the borrower, and to apply the payments and proceeds of the

### [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY] [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY]

### (NAME OF BSP-DLC ### AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL]

### (NAME OF FIRST WITNESS]

### [NAME OF SECOND WITNESS]

DLC Form No. 02-001-08*Version 9* Updated 2020 Page 3 of 7

## Page 11

collection or foreclosure sale to the outstanding obligation of the ### PARTICIPATING BANK.

6.2 The failure of the PARTICIPATING BANK to pay any of its obligation under the RLA or under this Agreement within the prescribed period, or to comply with any of the terms of the RLA and this Agreement, shall render all the availments/drawdowns of the PARTICIPATING BANK under the RLA and this Agreement due and demandable.

6.3. In case the DDA is insufficient to cover any of the outstanding obligation of the PARTICIPATING BANK, the BSP may suspend or cancel the RLA and this Agreement.

6.4 The PARTICIPATING BANK undertakes, as part of its Covenants or Undertakings under Section 7, in relation to Section 8.1.b of the RLA, that it shall comply with the eligibility requirements for rediscounting line in Section 282 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) throughout the effectivity of the RLA and this Agreement. The PARTICIPATING BANK’S Representations and Warranties under Section 6.1 of the RLA, insofar as may be applicable, shall likewise be a continuing undertaking of the Bank.

6.5 The RLA and the existing Electronic Rediscounting System Participation Agreement (ERSPA), including all documents executed in relation thereto, shall form integral parts of this Agreement and vice-versa. The requirements, rules, and procedures stated in these agreements shall suppletorily apply to this Agreement.

6.6 Incase of conflict, this Agreement shall govern as regards issues relative to the PN of the PARTICIPATING BANK and the PN of the borrower and its underlying collaterals; the express trust created between the BSP, the PARTICIPATING BANK, and its borrower; the required consent of the borrower and the undertaking from the PARTICIPATING BANK to obtain and submit the borrower’s consent to the BSP; the GS and other bank assets submitted as collaterals to the PARTICIPATING BANK’s availment; termination; and the additional eligible underlying collaterals.

### 7. EFFECTIVITY AND TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT

7.1. This Agreement shall take effect and be available upon execution and notarization of both parties and shall continue to be in full force and effect until the expiry of the RLA, unless sooner revoked, cancelled or terminated by BSP. In the latter case, the termination shall take effect upon written notice to the PARTICIPATING BANK or an announcement duly made through appropriate issuances of the BSP, whichever comes first. This amends in part Section 9.1 of the RLA.

### 8. SANCTIONS

The violation or breach of any of the foregoing terms and conditions shall be subject to such sanctions as are applicable under Section 282 of the MORB on

### [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY] [NAME OF BANK SIGNATORY]

### [NAME OF BSP-DLC ### AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL]

### (NAME OF FIRST WITNESS]

### (NAME OF SECOND WITNESS]

DLC Form No. 02-001-08*Version 9* Updated 2020 Page 4 of 7

## Page 12

Rediscounting, including suspension of any or all rediscounting privileges, if warranted. This is without prejudice to such sanctions, corrective actions and supervisory actions that the BSP may take under applicable enforcement policies.

Any misrepresentation made herein and in all documents executed pursuant to this Agreement will subject the offender to criminal liability in accordance with pertinent laws, in addition to the sanctions that may be imposed on the erring bank and/or its authorized/certifying officers under Section 282 of the MORB.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused the instrument to be signed by their authorized officers on the date first above written.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS [NAME OF PARTICIPATING BANK] ### By: By: ### [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BSP OFFICIAL] [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BANK OFFICIAL] [Position Title of Authorized BSP Official] [Position Title of Authorized Bank Official] ### By:

### [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BANK OFFICIAL]

[Position Title of Authorized Bank Official]

Signed in the presence of

DLC Form No. 02-001-08*Version 9* Updated 2020 Page 5 of 7

## Page 13

### ACKNOWLEDGMENT

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES )

BEFORE ME, this __ day of ,20_, at personally appeared ### the following:

Gov't. ID No/ CTC No. / Date NAME Date Issued/ Issued/ Place of Place of Issue Issue

### [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BANK OFFICIAL]

### [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BANK OFFICIAL]

all known to me and to me known to be the same persons who executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged to me that the same is their free and voluntary act and deed and of the entities they respectively represent.

This instrument, referring to Supplemental Rediscounting Line Agreement, consists of _ pages including this page where the Acknowledgment is written and which is signed by the parties and their instrumental witnesses on each and every page thereof.

WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL, on the date and at the place first written above.

### NOTARY PUBLIC Doc. No. Page No. Book No. Series of

DLC Form No. 02-001-08*Version 9* Updated 2020 Page 6 of 7

## Page 14

### ACKNOWLEDGMENT

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES ) City of Manila ) SS. BEFORE ME, this ____ day of , 20_, at

### appeared the following:

Gov't. ID No/ NAME Date Issued/ Place of Issue

personally

CTC No. / Date Issued/ Place of Issue

### [NAME OF AUTHORIZED BSP OFFICIAL]

known to me and to me known to be the same person who executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged to me that the same is her free and voluntary act and deed

and of the entity she represents.

This instrument, referring to Supplemental Rediscounting Line Agreement, consists of __ pages including this page where the Acknowledgment is written and which is signed by

the parties and the instrumental witnesses on each and every page thereof

WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL, on the date and at the place first written above.

### NOTARY PUBLIC

Doc. No. Page No. Book No. Series of

DLC Form No. 02-001-08*Version 9* Updated 2020

Page 7 of 7

## Page 15

Attachment 3

File in 4 copies

### PROMISSORY NOTE OF PARTICIPATING BANK

(Name of PARTICIPATING BANK)

### PHP/USS/JP ¥ (Date)

On demand but not beyond , or such date as the Monetary Board will prescribe, for value received, (PARTICIPATING BANK) promises to pay to the order of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Bangko Sentral) the sum of (PHILIPPINE PESO/US DOLLAR/JAPANESE YEN) with interest at the rate of

percent(___) per annum.

Annual interest shall be computed using 365/360 as basis, that is, by applying the ratio of the annual interest rate over a year of 360 days, multiplied by the outstanding principal balance, multiplied by the actual number of days the principal balance is outstanding.

The PARTICIPATING BANK agrees that the securities described in the Schedule included in the Supplemental Rediscounting Line Agreement (RLA) dated , attached as Annex “A” hereof, together with its underlying collaterals, including but not limited to, real estate mortgages covering the properties listed in Annex “B" hereof, shall serve as collateral to secure the obligation under this note and any other liability or liabilities, whether direct or contingent, of the PARTICIPATING BANK to the Bangko Sentral due or to become due or that may be hereafter contracted. The PARTICIPATING BANK shall endorse the said securities pursuant to Section 86 of Republic Act No. 7653, as amended, and, in addition, shall submit to the Bangko Sentral the corresponding covering documents, i.e., deed of pledge, deed of mortgage, or deed of assignment, as the case may be, as may be required by the Bangko Sentral.

The PARTICIPATING BANK agrees that the Bangko Sentral may directly demand and collect payment from the promissory note of the borrowers listed in the Schedule, foreclose upon their mortgage, and/or directly collect from the underlying collaterals securing the promissory note of the said borrowers. The PARTICIPATING BANK irrevocably designates the Bangko Sentral as its Attorney-in- Fact, with full power and authority to demand and collect payments from the said borrowers, to foreclose upon their mortgage, to apply the payments and proceeds of foreclosure to the outstanding obligation under this note.

## Page 16

Collections before maturity of PN of the PARTICIPATING BANK, shall be remitted to the Bangko Sentral within five (5) banking days from said payment. Upon maturity, any and all payments received by the PARTICIPATING BANK from the borrowers listed in the attached Schedule shall be held in trust by the PARTICIPATING BANK in favor of the Bangko Sentral and shall be transmitted to the Bangko Sentral.

At the exclusive option of the Bangko Sentral, payment of the remaining outstanding obligation on this note may be sourced from any of the collaterals or from the demand deposit account of the PARTICIPATING BANK. The express trust agreement and obligation to remit stated in the immediately preceding paragraph, however, shall subsist until full satisfaction of the obligation.

The PARTICIPATING BANK shall ensure that the securities listed in the Schedule together with its underlying collaterals shall remain valid and subsisting, otherwise this note shall become immediately due and demandable.

It is agreed that in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of, or the appointment of a receiver for the PARTICIPATING BANK, in the event that its business is suspended or closed by the authorized governmental authority, or in case of occurrence of any of the events of default under the RLA and Electronic Rediscounting System Participation Agreement, this note shall immediately become due and payable, without demand or notice.

The PARTICIPATING BANK shall pay the penalty, and/or be subjected to the sanctions prescribed under the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) in cases of violation of the terms and conditions of this note or the RLA and the Supplemental RLA. An additional interest of twelve percent (12%) per annum shall be assessed on non-payment of the penalties, from date of demand until full settlement thereof. Past due Bangko Sentra! loans and unpaid matured notes shall be levied liquidated damages equivalent to five percent (5%) per annum.

In the event of a dispute over this PN or when the same is referred for collection of the amount due or any unpaid balance thereof, the PARTICIPATING BANK shall pay the Bangko Sentral a sum equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the amount unpaid but in no case less than Fifty Thousand Pesos (PHP50,000.00) as attorney’s fees, in addition to costs of litigation and collection, interest rate, liquidated damages, penalties, and fines applicable. Any such legal action or dispute arising out of or relating to this PN shall be instituted exclusively in the courts of the City of Manila.

The provisions of the RLA dated , and the Supplemental RLA dated , shall be deemed written in this note and shall form integral parts hereof.

## Page 17

Name of PARTICIPATING BANK

### By: By:

Authorized Officer/Designation Authorized Officer/Designation

### SIGNED IN THE PRESENCE OF:

### ACKNOWLEDGMENT

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES)

### )S.S. BEFORE ME, a Notary Public, this _ day of 20__, personally ### appeared the following: ### NAME GOVERNMENT ISSUED I.D. ISSUED ON/AT

all known to me to be the same persons who executed the foregoing instrument as identified through their competent evidence of identity as defined by the Rules on Notarial Practice and they acknowledged to me that the same is their free and voluntary act and deed and of the entities they respectively represent.

This instrument, referring to a Promissory Note of PARTICIPATING BANK, consists of ( ) pages including this page where the Acknowledgment is written and which is signed by the parties and their instrumental witnesses on each and every page thereof.

WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL, on the date and at the place first written above.

### NOTARY PUBLIC

Doc. No. Page No. Book No. Series of

