### # M-2020-091

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2020 - 091

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFlIs) WITH ### CREDIT CARD OPERATIONS AND THEIR SUBSIDIARY/AFFILIATE ### CREDIT CARD COMPANIES

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of the Credit Card Business Activity Report (CCBAR)

All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) with credit card operations and their subsidiary/affiliate credit card companies shall observe the following guidelines for submission of the CCBAR beginning with the 31 October 2020 month-end report. This is pursuant to BSP Circular No. 1003* dated 16 May 2018 which supersedes Memorandum No. M-2016-002 dated 10 March 2016.

l. Submission Procedures

1. BSFls shall accomplish the updated Data Entry Template (DET) when submitting to the BSP and be guided by the reconciliation rules, attached thereto, both of which can be downloaded from http://www. bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting templates.

2. BSFls shall electronically transmit the CCBAR within 15 banking days from the reference month-end period to sdc-ccbar@bsp.gov.ph using the prescribed format for the Subject - “CCBAR<space><BSFI Name>,<space>dd<space>month name<space>ccyy”

For Example, To : sdc-ccbar@bsp.gov.ph Subject: CCBAR <BSFI Name>, 31 October 2020

### and the following prescribed file names and file format:

File File Name File

Format Data Entry Template (DET) I CCBAR XLS Control Prooflist (CP) CCBAR-Control Prooflist PDF

* Guidelines on the Establishment and Operations of Credit Card Issuers to Implement Republic Act No. 10870 or the Philippine Credit Card Industry Regulations Law

## Page 2

The submission deadline for the reference periods 31 October, 30 November and 31 December 2020 shall be due on or before 22 January 2021.

The e-mail address/es used in electronically submitting the CCBAR shall be the same e-mail address/es that will be used by the DSA in electronically acknowledging the submitted report and transmitting the corresponding validation results. For BSFls covered by Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017, only e-mail addresses officially registered with the DSA shall be used when electronically submitting the said report.

BSFls that are unable to transmit via email may submit the DET and its generated CP using any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) ### through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed deadline to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Ground Floor, Multi-Storey Building,

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street Malate 1004 Manila

A CCBAR guide is provided for the definition of data fields/entries (Annex A). It is understood that all data reported in the CCBAR have been checked for consistency against the credit card related information and balances in the Financial Reporting Package (FRP) and/or other prescribed reports containing the same relevant information submitted to DSA. The pertinent accounts are indicated in the reconciliation rules (Annex B).

Queries regarding the CCBAR, its related regulations and guidelines shall

be sent via e-mail to ccbar-inqg@bsp.gov.ph.

Important Reminders

The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission, among ### others:

Transmitting the wrong report/attachment

Failure to use the correct/updated templates

Failure to use an officially registered email address Transmitting to the wrong e-mail address

Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date Failure to use the prescribed filenames

Failure to use the correct file format

@ mean ow

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

2. Only one (1) DET and its corresponding signed and generated CP shall be submitted for each reporting period in one e-mail transmission. Submissions containing more than or less than one (1) DET and one (1) CP shall automatically be rejected by the system and considered non- compliant with the applicable reporting standards.

3. Report submissions that do not conform to the above prescribed procedures shall not be accepted by the BSP thus, considered unsubmitted. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be deemed compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to validation and applicable penalties for erroneous, delayed and/or unsubmitted reporting.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by DG Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 12 December 2020

### HUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

12 December 2020

Page 3 of 3

## Page 4

Annex A

### CREDIT CARD BUSINESS ACTIVITY REPORT DEFINITIONS

### DATA FIELD DEFINITION

### PART I: CARD ISSUANCE (In Numbers) This represents the total number of cards that are issued and A. Cards in Force outstanding; includes credit cards issued to the primary accountholder and any supplemental cards.

1. Total Number of Cards in Force (1 = 2 = 3) 2. By Category

This represents the total number of cards issued and outstanding} cards under credit card schemes.

i. Schemed

a. American Express

b. Japan Credit Bureau (JCB) Ne

d. VISA Card

f. China Union Pay

These are also called private label cards which are issued under a . . contractual agreement between financial institutions and third ii. Proprietary . .

parties, usually large retailers, for the purpose of consumers

transacting business with that entity.

3. By Segment This refers to cards issued to individuals for purposes other than corporate/business-related.

This refers to cards issued to the initial or main user of the credit card.

i. Individual

a. Primary

This refers to a credit card issued to another person

b. Supplementar' PP y whose credit limit is consolidated with the primary cardholder.

This refers to cards issued to members of a company for business-I

ii. Corporate P related expenses, most often travel-related.

B. Cards Applications (In Numbers)

Credit Card Application refers to the documentation completed

1. Number of applications i PP and submitted by an individual to apply for a credit card.

Approved Applications refer to the number of credit cardsI

2. Number of approved applications PP Pe approved and issued through different methods.

C. Cards Issued by Status (In Numbers) (Sum 1 to 3)

1. Active This refers to cards in good standing for both principal and . supplementary cardholders. 2. Temporarily Suspended Temporarily Suspended cards refer to cards which are still active

but temporarily suspended due to recent non-payment. 3. Closed/Cancelled

This refers to cards requested by cardholders for cancellation not! attributable to delinquency.

This refers to cards cancelled by issuing bank due to cardholder's} delinquency.

i. Voluntary

ii. Involuntary

### PART II: CREDIT AND EXPOSURE A. Credit Limit (In Php)

1. By Segment . a This refers to cards issued to individuals for purposes other than i. Individual . corporate/business-related.

This refers to cards issued to members of a company for business-I

ii. Corporate related expenses.

B. Credit Card Receivables (In Php)

1. Current

2. Past Due This refers to the total amount of past due credit card receivables. i. 1-30 days past due ii. 31-60 days past due

iii. 61-90 days past due

1of5

## Page 5

Annex A

### DATA FIELD DEFINITION

3. Sum of Non-Performing Loans

This refers to principal and/or interest that are unpaid for more than ninety (90) days from contractual due date, or accrued interests for more than ninety (90) days have been capitalized, refinanced, or delayed by agreement.

i. Non-Performing Loans, Net of Items in Litigation

c. Over 180 days past due

ii. Items in Litigation

C. Write-offs (In Php) (Sum 1 and 2)

1. Due to Delinquency

Items in litigation shall refer to credit card receivables for which cases, such as collection or foreclosure, have been filed in court orI sheriff's office, as the case may be.

a. 91-120 days past due b. 121-180 days past due

This refers to the total amount of bad debts charged off from the' receivable account.

This refers to the amount of receivables written off due to non- payment.

2. Due to Fraud/Others

D. Indicators (%) 1. Delinquency Rate

This refers to the amount of receivables written off due to unauthorized use of cards, fraud perpetrated by bank employees, etc.

2. Past Due Ratio

### P,

>

RT tll; BILLINGS AND USAGE Billings (In Php)

1. Total Billings (1 = 2 = 3)

2. By Mode of Transaction

3. Fraud Incidence (also known as fraud bps)

This refers to the total amount of billings of purchases and cash advances.

i. Card Present

ii. Card Not Present

iii. Others

This refers to total amount of transactions using POS terminals.

This refers to the total amount of transactions done via online, balance transfer, automatic debit arrangements, bills payment and phone banking transactions which does not need the physical presence of the card.

This refers to other mode of transactions other than the items mentioned above such as "Virtual Credit Card" or "controlled payment number" and other modes of payment such as Quick Response (QR) codes or other future technology innovations.

i. Purchase

This refers to the amount paid for purchases.

ii. Cash Advance

### A. I

1. Total Number of Transactions (1 = 2 = 3)

This refers to the amount paid for cash advances.

B. Usage (In Numbers) i $§——

This refers to the total number of billings of purchases and cash advances per network/brand.

2. By Mode of Transaction

i. Card Present

ii. Card Not Present

iii. Others

This refers to total number of transactions using POS terminals and cash advance through Automated Teller Machines (ATM).

This refers to the total amount of transactions done via online, balance transfer, automatic debit arrangements, bills payment and phone banking transactions which does not need the physical presence of the card.

This refers to other mode of transactions other than the items mentioned above such as "Virtual Credit Card" or "controlled payment number" and other modes of payment such as Quick Response (QR) codes or other future technology innovations.

i. Purchase

ii. Cash Advance

This refers to cash obtained by the cardholder from his/her credit card account, availed in any manner as stipulated in the credit card contract/agreement.

iii. Others

20f 5

## Page 6

Annex A

### DATA FIELD DEFINITION

C. Cardholder By Type of Payment Behavior (In Numbers)

i 1. Number of Revolvers

2. Number of Transactors

### PART IV: FEES AND CHARGES Fees and Charges Collected (Sum 1 to 9)

1. Finance Charge

. Annual Membership Fee

amount due or minimum amount due.

This refers to the number of cardholders who paid the minimum amount due regardless of whether the total amount due was paid during the previous billing period.

This refers to the number of cardholders who paid the total

amount due regardless of whether he paid only the minimum amount due during the previous billing period.

This refers to the interests, fees, service charges, discounts and such other charges incident to the extension of credit.

This refers to the amount a credit card issuer charges the credit! cardholder

for the right to use its credit card and acquire access to other'I membership benefits.

This is the amount imposed for the transfer of the balance in a credit card account with one

(1) credit card issuer to another account under a different credit card issuer subject to

terms mutually agreed upon by the parties concerned.

. Cash Advance Fees

. Foreign Transaction Conversion Fees

This is the amount charged for the replacement of lost, stoled or'I damaged credit card.

This refer to cash obtained by the cardholder from his/her credit card account, availed in any manner as stipulated in the credit card contract/agreement.

This refers to the amount of fees for foreign transactions! converted to Philippine peso.

. Late Payment Charges

This is the amount of fees charged for cardholders' failure to pay’ at least the minimum amount due on or before the payment due date.

. Overlimit Fees

### A . Balance Transfer Availment Fees . Card Replacement Fees

B. Standard Rates and Charges per Cardholder

This refers to the amount of fees billed for exceeding credit limit.

This refers to the amount of other fees charged by card issuers.

These refers to fees/charges per cardholder which may be a minimum amount or maximum percentage.

1. Finance Charge i. Minimum (%)

ii. Maximum (%)

2. Annual Membership Fee i. Minimum (Peso Amount)

ii. Maximum (Peso Amount)

3. Balance Transfer Availment Fee i. Minimum (Peso Amount)

ii. Maximum (Peso Amount) 4. Card Replacement Fee

i. Minimum (Peso Amount)

ii. Maximum (Peso Amount) 6. Foreign Transaction Conversion Fee

i. Minimum (%) ii. Maximum (%)

7. Late Payment Charge i. Minimum (Peso Amount)

ii. Maximum (Peso Amount) 8. Overlimit Fees

i. Minimum (Peso Amount)

i. Standard Fee 5. Cash Advance Fee

ii. Maximum (Peso Amount)

PART V: CARDHOLDER PROFILE (In Number) CARDHOLDER INFORMATION (Principal Only) (As of data)

A. Age (Sum 1 to 5) elow 22 years old

II 2. 22 to 35 years old ### OT 4. 56 to 65 years old ee

30f5

## Page 7

Annex A

### DATA FIELD DEFINITION

B. Gender at Birth (Sum 1a ) 1. Male

2. Female

2. Regions (Sum a to p)

C. Geographic Location (where billings are sent) (Sum 1 and 2) ee

a. CAR

b. Region I-Ilocos Region

Cordillera Administrative Region: Abra, Apayao, Benguet, Ifugao, Kalinga, Mountain Province llocos Norte, Ilocos Sur, La Union and Pangasinan

c. Region Il - Cagayan Valley

d. Region IIl- Central Luzon

Batanes, Nueva Vizcaya, Cagayan, Isabela and Quirino Bataan, Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Tarlac, Zambales and Aurora

e. Region IV-A Calabarzon

f. Region IV-B Mimaropa

Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal and Quezon Occidental & Oriental Mindoro, Marinduque, Romblon and Palawan

g. Region V-Bicol Region

h. Region Vl-Western Visayas

Albay, Camarines Norte & Sur, Catanduanes, Masbate and Sorsogon

Aklan, Antique, Negros Occidental, Capiz, Guimaras and Iloilo

i. Region Vil-Central Visayas

j. Region VIII-Eastern Visayas

Cebu, Bohol, Negros Oriental and Siquijor Biliran, Eastern, Northern & Western Samar, Leyte and Southern Leyte

k. Region IX-Zamboanga Peninsula

I. Region X-Northern Mindanao

Zamboanga Peninsula: Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur, Zamboanga Sibugay

Misamis Oriental & Occidental, Camiguin, Lanao del Norte and Bukidnon

m. Region XI-Davao Region

n. Region XIl-Soccsksargen

Davao Region: Compostela Valley, Davao del Norte, Davao Oriental, Davao Occidental and Davao del Sur

Central Mindanao: South Cotabato, Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Saranggani

o. Region XIll-Caraga

Occupation (Sum of 1 to 3)

Caraga: Agusan del Norte, Agusan del Sur, Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur, and Dinagat Islands

BARMM: Basilan, Lanao del Sur, Maguindanao, Sulu, Tawi-Tawi

Self-employed E. Educational Attainment (Sum 1 to 4)

Private Sector Government Sector

3. Post Graduate

1. High School 2. College

4. Others

PART VI: USAGE PROFILE (In PHP) ### USAGE LOCATION

Incoming (locally used) for merchant acquiring banks of credit card

transaction (Sum A to C)

A. Travel (Sum 1 to 3)

This refers to the non-resident travelers' use of internationally’ issued credit cards in the Phils.

This covers all goods and services for own use or to give away, acquired by Philippine residents going abroad or non-residents coming to the Philippines for personal/business purposes. Examples of personal purpose include vacations, participation in recreational and cultural activities, visits with friends and relatives, pilgrimage, and education- and health-related purposes; and business purpose such as carrier crews stopping off or laying over, government employees on official travel, employees ofI international organizations on official business and employees traveling on behalf of their employer. Business travel also covers! goods and services for which business travelers are reimbursed by’ their employer but excludes sales or purchases on behalf of the’ enterprise/company that they represent.

4of5

## Page 8

Annex A

### DATA FIELD DEFINITION

1. Personal Travel

2. Health-Related Travel

This refers to goods and services such as: Hotel, lodging, motels, resorts, Car rentals, passenger railways, commuter passenger ferries, taxicabs, bus lines, cruise lines, duty free stores, service stations, drug stores, pharmacies, restaurants, telecom equipment, electronic sales etc.

This refers to services of Doctors, Dentists, Orthodontics, Ostheopathic Physicians, Chiropractors, Opthometrists, Opthalmologists, Opticians, Hospital, Nursing and Personal Care Facilities, Dental and medical laboratories etc.

3. Education-Related Travel

This refers to services of schools, colleges and educational services etc.

These cover all services provided in the international transport ofI non-residents by resident carriers and of residents by non- resident carriers. These include fares and other expenditures related to the carriage of passengers, taxes levied on passenger services, package tours, cruise fares, charges for excess baggage, vehicles, or other personal accompanying effects and food, drinks, or other items purchased on board carriers. Excluded in this category are passenger transport services provided within a territory by residents to non-residents that are provided or'I purchased separately from international transport. Such expenditures are included under travel.

These cover all Incoming/Outgoing less Travel and Passenger Service.

This refers to Philippine resident travelers' use of locally issued credit cards abroad.

This covers all goods and services for own use or to give away, acquired by Philippine residents going abroad or non-residents coming to the Philippines for personal/business purposes. Examples of personal purpose include vacations, participation in recreational and cultural activities, visits with friends and relatives, pilgrimage, and education- and health-related purposes; and business purpose such as carrier crews stopping off or laying over, government employees on official travel, employees ofI international organizations on official business and employees traveling on behalf of their employer. Business travel also covers! goods and services for which business travelers are reimbursed by their employer but excludes sales or purchases on behalf of the enterprise/company that they represent.

1. Personal Travel 2. Health-Related Travel

3. Education-Related Travel

These cover all services provided in the international transport ofI non-residents by resident carriers and of residents by non- resident carriers. These include fares and other expenditures related to the carriage of passengers, taxes levied on passenger services, package tours, cruise fares, charges for excess baggage, vehicles, or other personal accompanying effects and food, drinks, or other items purchased on board carriers. Excluded in this category are passenger transport services provided within a territory by residents to non-residents that are provided or'I purchased separately from international transport. Such expenditures are included under travel.

These cover all Incoming/Outgoing less Travel and Passenger Services

Sof5

## Page 9

Annex B

Credit Card Business Activity Report for Universal/Commercial Banks and their Subsidiary Banks

Total Type of Schedule No. Account Code/Formulation Reconciliation Amount Rule/Remarks

FRP-Sched 11A 140150004505100000 Use Current Column 1.0/UNB

FRP-Sched 11A 140150004505100000 Use Past Due Column 1.0/UNB

### CCBAR 002201000000000000 . Add Non-Performing, net of ITL and Items in Litigation CCBAR30 ISum of Non-Performing Loans FRP-Sched 11A 140150004505100000 x 2.1/UNB

CCBAR10 ICurrent

CCBAR20 IPast Due

(ITL) columns ### CCBAR 002201500000000000

CCBAR4O INon-Performing Loans, Net of ITL FRP-Sched 11A 140150004505100000

Use Non-Performing, net of ITL Column 1.0/UNB

FRP-Sched 11A 140150004505100000 Use Items in Litigation (ITL) Column 1.0/UNB

CCBARSO [Items in Litigation

Type of Reconciliation Rule

1. Straightforward rules

2. Formula generated rules 2.1. Same account with several columns 2.2. Combination of several accounts

3. Conditional rules

lofi

## Page 10

CREDIT CARD BUSINESS ACTIVITY REPORT (CCBAR) <dd-mmmm-yyyy>

### Name of Financial Institution: ### Financial Institution Code: ### URL/Web Site:

PART I: CARD ISSUANCE For the Month Ended Account Codes (In Numbers) <mmmm-yyyy>

A. Cards in Force

I __[1.Total Number of CardsinForce(1=2=3) Ss *(001050000000000001 I I [2.ByCategory OT if00x050000000000002 I I I ischemed 0 f001050500000000000 I I I a Americanexpress CC C(f00050500500000000 I I I ib JapanCreditBureau(icB) Ss C*f00050501000000000 I I I Mastercard OO f0t050501500000000 I I I d.visAcard OO f001050502000000000 I I Ie Diners f0050502500000000 I I I. ChinaUnionPay TT f001050503000000000 I I Ig Others ft050503500000000 I I I ii. Proprietary = *f00051000000000000 I I [3.BySegment OT f001050000000000003 I I I iindividual if 001051500000000000 I I I a Primary id 01051500500000000 I I Ib. Supplementary CCCCCCC«*d001051501000000000 I II ii. Corporate 5200000000000 I

B. Cards Applications (In Numbers)

I __I1. Number of applications 001150000000200000 Po I I2. Number of approved applications 001150000000100000 Po

C. Cards Issued by Status (In Numbers) (Sum 1 to 3) 001200000000000000

I [tActive 0 f001200500000000000 I I _[2.TemporarilySuspended Ss C*(001201000000000000 I I [3.Closed/Cancelled = C*f001201500000000000 I I I Voluntary 0 f001201500500000000 I I [I ii.tnvoluntary 0 foon20i501000000000 I

PART Il: CREDIT AND EXPOSURE For the Month Ended

Account Codes <mmmm-yyyy>

A. Credit Limit (In Php) 002150000000000000

I ‘I4. By Segment 002150500000000000 en) I Ii Individual 002150500500000000 Po I I iiCorporate TT 302150501000000000 fp

B. Credit Card Receivables (In Php)

I Iteurrent 0 f.02200500000000000 I I i2PastDue TT f.02202000000000000 I 00 I I i.130dayspastdue 0 fn2z0000500000000 fF I I i 34-60dayspastdue 02 2010010000000 I I I iii. 61-90dayspastdue fz 201001500000000 I I [3.SumofNon-Performingloans ss *f002201500000000000 =I 0.00 I I i. Non-Performing Loans, Net of Items in Litigation }002201500500000000 =I i—its—s—SCSC(i«OD I I a 91-120dayspastdue 02 201500505000000 I I Ib 121-180 dayspastdue 02 201500510000000 I I I Over 180dayspastdue fm 201500515000000 I

## Page 11

CREDIT CARD BUSINESS ACTIVITY REPORT (CCBAR) <dd-mmmm-yyyy>

ii. Items in Litigation 002201501000000000 Pe

C. Write-offs (In Php) (Sum 1 and 2) 002250000000000000

I_I. Due to Delinquency 002250500000000000 Po I _I2. Due to Fraud/Others 002251000000000000 Po

D. Indicators (%)

I‘ I4. Delinquency Rate 002300500000000000 Po I _I2. Past Due Ratio 002301000000000000 Po I _I3. Fraud Incidence (also known as fraud bps) 002301500000000000 Po

A. Billings (In Php)

I I1.TotalBillings(1=2=3) C*d003200500000000000 I 0.00) I I2.ByModeofTransaction «di 003201000000000000 I 0.00) I I iCardPresent Cf 03201000500000000 I I I ii. CardNotPresent =f 03201001000000000 I I I ii Others f003201001500000000 I I [3Bytype Of 003201500000000000 I 00 I I Purchase 0 03201500500000000 I I I ii. cCashAdvance =f 03201501000000000 I PI i Others T03201501500000000_ I

B. Usage (In Numbers)

I _I4. Total Number of Transactions (1 = 2 = 3) 003250500000000000 en) I _I2. By Mode of Transaction 003251000000000000 en) I I iCardPresent =f 0251000500000000 PO

I I ii CardNotPresent «di 003251001000000000 I I I ii Others «df 003251001500000000 I I [.ByTtyre OC CCCCCCCCCCCCif0032515000000000000 I I I Purchase 0d 008251500500000000 I I I ii Cashadvance TT *d003251501000000000 I PI iii. Others ozzsasoisoovooo0 =I

Cc. Cardholder By Type of Payment Behavior (In Numbers) 003300000000000000

I _I4. Number of Revolvers 003300500000000000 Po I _I2. Number of Transactors 003301000000000000 Po

A. Fees and Charges Collected (Sum 1 to 9) 001400000000000000

I [iFinanceCharge 0 Cf01400500500000000 I I [2.AnnualMembershipFee CC f001400501000000000 I I _[3.Balance Transfer Availment Fees *f001400501500000000 I I _[4.cardReplacementFees *(001400502000000000 I I [5.cCashAdvanceFees CT C*f01400502500000000 I I __[6. Foreign Transaction ConversionFees_ ss *(001400503000000000 I I [7.latePaymentCharges CC C*f001400503500000000 I I [8 OverlimitFees TT f001400504000000000 I I {9.Others 0 onao0s0a500000000 I

B. Standard Rates and Charges per Cardholder

I __I1._Finance Charge Pt II i. Minimum (%) 001550500500500000 Po II ii. Maximum (%) 001550500500600000 Po

2 of 4

## Page 12

CREDIT CARD BUSINESS ACTIVITY REPORT (CCBAR) <dd-mmmm-yyyy>

I I2. AnnualMembershipFee I

I I i.Minimum(PesoAmount) ss C*d00550501000500000 I I I is Maximum(PesoAmount) = C*d00550501000600000 I I I3. BalanceTransferAvailmentFee I I I i.Minimum(PesoAmount) ss C*d0550501500500000 I I I is Maximum(PesoAmount) ss CCC*d0S50501500600000 I I [4. CardReplacementFee I I iStandardFee 0 Cf00550502000500000 I I [5 CashAdvanceFee I I iMinimum(PesoAmount) C*f00550502500500000 I I I ii.Maximum(PesoAmount) ss C*f0550502500600000 I I [6 ForeignTransactionConversionFee I Ii Minimum(%) CT f001550503000500000 I I I ii. Maximum(%) CC f001550503000600000 I I I7. LatePaymentCharge I I iMinimum(PesoAmount) «if 00550503500500000 I I I ii.Maximum(PesoAmount) Cif 00550503500600000 I I [8 OverlimitFees I I i.Minimum(PesoAmount) ss *(00550504000500000 I I {I ii. Maximum(PesoAmount) ——lgoassoso4oo0soo000 I

PART V: CARDHOLDER PROFILE (In Number) For the Month Ended

CARDHOLDER INFORMATION (Principal Only) (As of data) Account Codes <mmmm-yyyy>

A. Age (Sum 1to 5) 002050500000000000

I [1.Below22yearsold TT *f02050500500000000 I I I2.22to35yeasold TT *f002050501000000000 I I I3.36toSSyeasold TT *f002050501500000000 I 4. 56 to 65 years old . 66 years old and above

I

B. Gender at Birth (Sum 1 and 2) 002051000000000000

. Male 002051000500000000

. Female 002051001000000000

### N

C. Geographic Location (where billings are sent) (Sum 1 and 2) 002052000000000000

I fF I fF NCR f002052000500000000 I 2.Regions(Sumatop) «i 002052001000000000 I po acAR TT f002052001005000000 I I b.RegionIlocosRegion «if 002052001010000000 I I c.Region!l-CagayanValley «if 002052001015000000 I I d.Regionlil-Centralluzon «if 002052001020000000 I I _e.RegionIV-A Calabarzon «if 002052001025000000 I I f.RegionIV-BMimaropa «4 002052001030000000 I I g.RegionV-BicolRegion «if 002052001035000000 I I h.RegionVi-Western Visayas 002052001040000000 I I i.RegionVil-Central Visayas *f002052001045000000 I I

ion X- I

. Regi I

. Regi I

. Regi I fF

k. Region IX-Zamboanga Peninsula 002052001055000000

j. Region VIII-Eastern Visayas 002052001050000000

002052001075000000

D. Occupation (Sum of 1 to 3) 002052500000000000

## Page 13

CREDIT CARD BUSINESS ACTIVITY REPORT (CCBAR) <dd-mmmm-yyyy>

I Ia. PrivateSector = CC—“‘“‘CNCCCCCC_I002052500500000000 fF I __I2. GovernmentSector = CC—“‘SC_002052501000000000 P I [3.. Self-employed 002052501500000000 Po

I IaHighSchool = CC_«d002053000500000000

Se OE I I3.PostGraduate —CCCCCSCSCSCSC*C*diZOSBOOZOOQOOGDD II I I4.Others 0 S02053002500000000 I

I‘ I1. Personal Travel 004050500500000000 Po

I _I2. Health-Related Travel 004050501000000000 Po I _[3. Education-Related Travel 004050501500000000 Po

I _I1. Personal Travel 004100500500000000 Po I _I2. Health-Related Travel 004100501000000000 Po I __I3. Education-Related Travel 004100501500000000 Po

### Prepared By: ### Position: ### Date:

### Approved By:

### Position: ### Date:

4of 4 