### # M-2023-003

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2023-_003

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFIs)

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of Monthly Report on the Sale/Transfer and Investment Transactions of BSFIs under Republic Act No. 11523 otherwise known as the “Financial Institutions Strategic Transfer (FIST) Act”

Pursuant to Circular No. 1117 dated 27 May 2021, as amended under Circular No. 1147 dated 10 June 2022, the following are the submission guidelines that shall ### be observed beginning report as of end-January 2023:

A. Submission Guidelines

1. All BSFls that availed of the tax exemptions and incentives/privileges under the FIST Act shall use the FIST Monthly Data Entry Template (DET) and its corresponding Control Prooflist (CP) which can be downloaded from www.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting templates or directly requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) through DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph. In requesting the said files, covered BSFls shall follow the prescribed format as the subject, [REQUEST] FIST Monthly Template.

2. All covered BSFIls shall submit the Monthly Report DET and CP on the Sale/ Transfer and Investment Transactions of BSFIls under the FIST Act through the F/ST@bsp.gov.ph, copy furnished the appropriate supervising department of the BSP, using the following prescribed ### format for the subject:

FIST Monthly <BSFI Name>, <Reference Period in DD Month CCYY>

For Example, To : AisT@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FIST Monthly Bank ABC, 31 January 2023 and using the prescribed file naming convention, as illustrated ### below: File File name File Format Reference period (MMDDYY) 1. Monthly Report FIST Monthly_Reference Period xls 2. Control Prooflist {FIST Monthly CP_ Reference Period pdf

## Page 2

The report shall be considered a Category B report and shall be submitted within twenty (20) business days after end of reference month.

BSFls that availed of the tax exemptions and incentives/privileges under the FIST Act shall submit the required prudential report within the prescribed timeline following the reference month of the transaction.

BSFls shall submit the prudential report as long as the BSFls have outstanding balance related to the FIST transaction (i.e., Deferred Charges) or there are new sale/transfer transactions under the FIST for the reporting month.

All covered BSFls shall only use e-mail addresses officially registered with the DSA in electronically submitting reports in accordance with BSP Memoranda Nos. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017, M- 2017- 014 and 2017-015 both dated 31 March 2017 and M-2017-006 and M-2017-007 both dated 22 February 2017. The same registered e-mail address/es shall be used by the DSA in acknowledging the submitted reports.

All covered BSFls that are unable to transmit electronically may submit the DET and CP in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed ### deadline addressed to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

Important Reminders

1.

### The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission: Failure to use an Officially registered e-mail address; Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date; Failure to use the correct templates;

Transmitting to the wrong e-mail address; and

Failure to use the prescribed file names and file format.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2023.02.14

14:54:24 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

oanoa®

For compliance.

14 February 2023

Page 2 of 2 