### # M-2021-063

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-063

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL UNIVERSAL AND COMMERCIAL BANKS (UBs/KBs) AND THEIR SUBSIDIARY THRIFT/QUASI BANKS (TB/QBs)

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of the

Report on Intraday Liquidity through the BSP Financial Institution Portal (Fl Portal)

Pursuant to Section 145 of the Manual of Regulation for Banks (MORB) and Section 145-Q of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) on Liquidity Risk Management, as amended by Circular No. 1064 dated 3 December 2019,’ and further amended by Circular No. 1123 dated 13 July 2021,7 all covered banks/quasi-banks shall observe the following guidelines in the ### electronic submission of the Report on Intraday Liquidity:

Submission Guidelines

1. All UBs/KBs and their subsidiary TB/QBs shall use the prescribed Report on Intraday Liquidity Data Entry Template (DET) and the Control Prooflist (CP) which can be downloaded from www. bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates or may be directly requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through BSPFiPortal@bsp.gov.ph. \n requesting the said template, covered institutions shall follow the prescribed format as the subject: [REQUEST] Intraday Liquidity Report Template.

2. During the observation period covering end-September 2021 to end-December 2021 monthly reports, all UBs/KBs and their subsidiary TB/QBs shall submit the Report on Intraday Liquidity through the FI Portal. The submission of the end-September and end-October 2021 reports is due on 3 December 2021 while the end-November to end-December 2021 reports are due for submission on the prescribed deadline.

Report on Intraday Liquidity of Universal and Commercial Banks (UBs/KBs) and their Subsidiary Banks/Quasi-Banks (QBs)

2. Amendments to Guidelines on Report on Intraday Liquidity of Universal and Commercial Banks (UBs/KBs) and their Subsidiary Banks/Quasi-Banks (QBs)

## Page 2

3. The DET and CP shall be submitted through the FI Portal using the prescribed file naming convention’ and _ file ### extension/format, as illustrated below:

File File Name File extension/ Format Data Entry Template Intraday xls . Intraday-Control Control Prooflist Prooflist pdf

4. UBs/KBs and their subsidiary TB/QBs that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the DET and CP in any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or ### postal services within the prescribed deadline addressed to:

The Department Head

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

5. Regular monthly reports submitted by the covered institutions starting month-ending January 2022 that do not conform to the above prescribed guidelines shall not be accepted and shall be considered non-compliant with the BSP reporting requirements as prescribed under Section 171 of the MORB and Section 172-Q of the MORNBEFI. Moreover, only files prescribed by the BSP for the said report shall be accepted to be considered as compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to validation and applicable penalties for delayed, erroneous, and/or unsubmitted reporting.

For compliance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.11.15

16:49:08 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

15 November 2021

Page 2 of 2 