### # M-2024-009

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR I OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024-009

To : ALL PAWNSHOPS AND MONEY SERVICE BUSINESSES Subject : Collection of the Annual Supervision Fees (ASF) for the Year 2024

Pursuant to the authority of the Monetary Board to collect annual supervision fees from Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)-supervised financial institutions (BSFls), including Pawnshops and Money Service Businesses (MSBs), under Section 28 of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 7653 (The New Central Bank Act), as amended by R.A. No. 11211’, the following guidelines shall govern the computation and collection by the BSP and the payment by Pawnshops and MSBs? of the 2024 ### ASF.

1. Computation of ASF for 2024 a. Pawnshops

The ASF is computed based on the number of Pawnshop offices as at the end of December of the immediately preceding year multiplied by five hundred pesos (P500.00) in accordance with Section 702-P of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBEFI)-P Regulations.

b. MSBs

The ASF is computed based on the MSB type in accordance with the regulation on payment of annual service fee under Section 901-N of the MORNBFI-N Regulations. The MSB type as at the end of December of the immediately preceding year shall be used as basis for purposes of determining the amount of ASF.

Pawnshops with MSB registration shall pay the ASF applicable for both pawnshop and MSB.

Sample illustrative computations are provided in Annex A. 2. Notification of Amount Due for 2024 and Mode of Payment

The BSP’s Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) shall send billing notices to all Pawnshops and MSBs for their ASF, indicating,

1 Supervised institutions shall pay to Bangko Sentral no later than May 3] of each year, an annual supervision fee as may be prescribed by the Monetary Board (MB).

2 Collection of ASF of electronic money (e-money) issuers (EMIs) and virtual asset service providers (VASPs) is covered separately.

Page 1 of 3

## Page 2

among others, the computation of the ASF due, the period covered by the ASF and the due date for the payment thereof.

Payment shall be made through any payment channels available in BSP’s New Order of Payment System (NOPS). The Order of Payment Number (OPN) relative to this transaction can also be generated through the NOPS. The NOPS can _ be accessed through this link

https://nops.bsp.gov.ph/nops/.

### To generate the OPN through the NOPS, follow these steps: a. Click “Create Order of Payment Number’ button.

### b. Choose the appropriate transaction type: i. For Pawnshops, select “CASGTB/NB-Annual Supervisory Fees - Pawnshop.” ii. For Money Service Businesses (MSBs), choose “CASGTB/NB-Annual Supervisory Fees - Money Service Business.”

c. Complete the other required details such as address, e-mail, and phone number.

d. Ensure that the 11-digit Account Number adheres to the ### prescribed format, as follows:

i. The first four (4) digits represent the current assessment year (which is 2024).

ii. The remaining seven (7) digits correspond to the unique BSFI code of the Pawnshop or MSB. For Pawnshops, use the first seven (7) digits of the Pawnshop Registration No. stated in the BSP-issued Certificate of Authority. For MSBs, use the first seven (7) digits of the MSB Registration No. stated in the BSP-issued Certificate of Registration.

### For Example:

First 4 digits Last 7 digits T1-digit Account Number

Current First 7 digits of the assessment unique BSFI code,

year i.e., Pawnshop or MSB Registration

No. 2024 1234567 20241234567

e. Click Agree then submit.

Exceptions Noted on Billing Notice of 2024 ASF

Upon receipt of the BSP Notice of ASF billing, the Pawnshop or MSB is encouraged to check the accuracy of the billing. In case concerns or exceptions are noted by the Pawnshop or MSB, such concerns or exceptions shall be submitted to the BSP not later than five (5) working days from receipt of the billing notice, otherwise the BSFI is deemed to have concurred with the billing notice.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

Concerns or exceptions, if any, together with supporting documents, shall be e-mailed to fsd9@bsp.gov.ph using the following prescribed subject format - ASF 2024-Noted Exceptions<space><ABC ### PAWNSHOP>.

### For Example:

To : fsd9@bsp.gov.ph Subject : ASF 2024-Noted Exceptions <ABC Pawnshop>

Concerns or exceptions not duly substantiated with supporting documents shall not be considered in the evaluation of the BSP. The Pawnshop or MSB concerned shall be advised of the action taken on the concerns or exceptions raised.

This Memorandum shall take effect immediately.

For strict compliance.

Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2024.03.25 16:49:54 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

25 March 2024

Page 3 of 3

## Page 4

Annex A

Scenarios for computation of 2024 ASF

A. Pawnshops: P500 per Pawnshop Office

Total no. of Pawnshop offices as of 31 December 2023: 100 ASF rate : P500 ASF for 2024 : P50,000.00 ### B. MSB MSB Annual Service Fee Type ### A P.100,000 ### B P 20,000 Cc P. 300,000 and/or as determined by Monetary Board ### D P. 100,000 ### E P. 100,000 ### F P 20,000

Note: ASF rate will be based on the type of MSB as of 31 December 2023

C. Pawnshops with (Types A, D and E) MSB registration: ASF for Pawnshop plus ASF for MSB

Total no. of Pawnshop offices as of 31 December 2023: 100

Pawnshop ASF rate : 500 P 50,000.00 Type A/D/E MSB ASF rate : 100,000.00 ASF for 2024 : P. 150,000.00

D. Pawnshops with (Types B and F) MSB registration: ASF for Pawnshop plus ASF for MSB

Total no. of Pawnshop offices as of 31 December 2023: 100

Pawnshop ASF rate : #500 PR. 50,000.00 Type B/F MSB ASF rate : 20,000.00 ASF for 2024 : P'70,000.00

3 Type “C” registered MSBs pertain to EMls, the ASF collection of which is not covered in this Memorandum. 