### # M-2021-067

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### \ . : COPORATE SERVICES SECTOR ne OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR

### /? 7 MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-067

,. ew 6 : To : ALL BANKS AND NON-BANKS PERFORMING QUASI BANKING ye OO (NBQBs) See - - Subject —: Registration of Email Addresses of Authorized Recipients of

Pee & Demand Deposit - Statement of Account (SOA) Relative to the ew Submission of Bank Reconciliation Statement (BRS)

Cj am » Date : 15 December 2021

Relative to the implementation of the Semestral submission of the Banks/NBQBs Reconciliation Statements on their Demand Deposit Accounts (DDAs) maintained with —_ the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)! as against the SOA to be furnished by the BSP one Financial Accounting Department, Comptrollership Sub-Sector (BSP-FAD, CoSS) pursuant to BSP Circular No. 1096 series of 2020, the following guidelines shall be

observed in the electronic transmission of DD-SOA to Banks/NBQBs effective ### immediately:

1. DD-SOA shall be sent to the Banks/NBQBs email addresses duly registered with the BSP-FAD, CoSS.

### 2. For this purpose, a Bank/NBQB is required to:

a. Accomplish the attached Registration Form (RF)* duly certified by the

authorized officer of the Bank/NBQB with the rank of President or its equivalent.

b. Submit thru email using any of the email addresses of the Bank/NBQB

registered for electronic correspondences with the BSP-Department of

ae Supervisory and Analytics (DSA), the scanned copy in Portable Document Uh a 4 Form (PDF) of the signed RF together with the excel file version of the RF

we 7 1 Effective starting with the semester ending 31 December 2021 pursuant to Section 315/312-Q of the Manual

pba’ ” of Regulations for Banks/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions, as amended under gat BSP Circular No. 1096 s.2020 dated 16 September 2020.

Geli 2 Attached as Annex “A”. ; my 3 Pursuant to BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-026 dated 11 September 2017.

## Page 2

to the BSP-FAD, CoSS at acrg-fis@bsp.gov.ph on or before 20 December 2021".

3. A BSP-supervised financial institution (BSFI) can register a maximum of four (4) email addresses® - one should belong to the President or its equivalent, one to the Compliance Officer or its equivalent, and the remaining two (2) to other authorized responsible personnel.

4. Subsequent changes in the official registry can be facilitated by submitting an updated RF and excel file of the list of authorized recipients in accordance with items 2 and 3. The updated RF shall supersede the previous registration.

5. Non-receipt of a notification from the BSP system of the failure of delivery, the

BSP-FAD, CoSS shall presume that the DD-SOAs sent to the officially registered email address/es are duly received by the BSFI.

Thank you for your cooperation and prompt compliance.

Digitally signed on OBIER 15 December 2021

Sector-In-Charge

“ Banks/NBQBs who may not be able to register new e-mail addresses on or before 20 December 2021, the DD-SOAs will be sent to the e-mail addresses registered for the electronic correspondences with the BSP- DSA until new e-mail addresses are registered with BSP-FAD, CoSS.

> Please note that the database field where the e-mail addresses of the SOA recipients are recorded can be filled with a maximum of 100 characters. This limit corresponds to 3 to 4 e-mail addresses.

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

Annex “A”

### REGISTRATION FORM ### EMAIL ADDRESS/ES AUTHORIZED TO RECEIVE ### DEMAND DEPOSIT - STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT (DD-SOA) ### (NAME OF BANK/NON-BANK PERFORMING QUASI-BANKING) ### (ADDRESS)

### LIST OF EMAIL ADDRESSES AUTHORIZED TO RECEIVE DD -SOA

This is to certify that the foregoing email address/es is/are authorized recipient/s of the Statement of Account of the Demand Deposit maintained by the (Name of Bank/Quasi- Bank) with the BSP relative to Section 315/312-Q of the Manual of Regulations for Banks/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions, as amended under BSP Circular No. 1096 s.2020 dated 16 September 2020.

President Signature over Printed Name ### Date: 