### # M-2021-001

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-001

To : All Banks and Quasi-Banks (QBs)

Subject : Amendments to the Standard Operating Procedures for Philippine Holidays

The Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Philippine Holidays as provided under Appendix 88/Q-51 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB)/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI), respectively, is hereby amended as part of the thrust of the Bangko Sentral to support the domestic financial markets.

The revised SOP aims to provide clarity on the Bangko Sentral services available on holidays involving only the public sector and in emergency situations. It also provides the treatment of said days for purposes of determining compliance with the reserve requirements. The amended Appendix 88/Q-51 of the MORB/MORNEBEFI are shown in Annex A of this Memorandum.

This supersedes the Bangko Sentral Memorandum No. M-2020-013 dated 20 March 2020.

For guidance and immediate compliance by 11 January 2021.

CeO ### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

Of tanuary 2021

## Page 2

STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS An nex A Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

### PDTC EQ

Financial Market Operations Sub-Sector I Payments and Settlements Office Depository i (FMOSS) j BTr/ BAP / MART / Type of Holiday Regional Offices PDTC Fl Seen Sept. aor) ae and Branches PDS Group Depository DVP Trading and Settlement of ODF, OLF, Withdrawal Position (ROBs) PSSC PVP TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, PhilPaSS

BSP Securities, and USD/PHP

PhilPaSS will be closed on the first day.

Opening on the second and succeeding days will be decided by the Governor before 6:00 a.m.

Announcement of PhilPaSS opening/closing will be done by

### BSP-PSO.

Closed Closed Non-reserve Closed Closed If PhilPaSS opens on the second and succeeding days, it will be for

InstaPay and PESONet only. Settlement for all other PhiIPaSS

transactions (including GS trading, FX trading) will not be available. Settlement of all other PhilPaSS transactions will be available when FMOSS and Cash open.

Page 1 of 4

1. Malacafiang declared regular and ### special (non-working) holidays, including:

Regular Holidays

- New Year's Day (January 1)

- Araw ng Kagitingan (April 9)

- Maundy Thursday (March or April)

- Good Friday (March or April)

~ Labor Day (May 1)

- Independence Day (June 12)

- National Heroes’ Day (Last Monday of August) - Bonifacio Day (November 30)

- Christmas Day (December 25)

- Rizal Day (December 30)

- Ei'dl Fitr (no definite day or month) - Ei'dl Adha (no definite day or month)

Office is closed but PCHC system remains open only to accept clearing transactions

Special Non-working holidays

- Chinese New Year (around February)

- EDSA Revolution Anniversary (February 25)

- Black Saturday ( March or April)

~ Ninoy Aquino Day (August 21)

- All Saint's Day (November 1)

- All Soul's Day (November 2)

- Feast of the Immaculate Concepcion (December 8) - Christmas Eve (December 24)

- Last day of the Year (December 31)

2. Malacafang declared non-working days for both public and private sectors

Fl Depository Office is closed but PCHC DVP PSSC PVP I system remains open only to Closed accept clearing transactions

(covering more than one day and previously announced/issued holidays not included in item 1)

## Page 3

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas ### PDTC E Financial Market Operations Sub-Sector I Payments and Settlements Office De —— BTr/ BAP / MART / POSTOry

7 (FMOSS) (PSO) Regional Offic Type of Holiday Cash Dept. (CD) Reserve mt Branches PDS Group Seneca?

Trading and Settlement of ODF, OLF, Withdrawal Position (ROBs) PSSC PVP TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, PhilPaSS BSP Securities, and USD/PHP

3. Malacafiang declared non-working days for public sector alone

a. announced holidays on an ordinary Raesne Normal business day

Closed Affected ROBs will No clearing; no settlement. be closed. PCHC will issue an advisory to Day 1 Settlements and maturities will be Closed Closed Non-reserve Closed its members that its System moved to the next banking day when Unaffected ROBs remains open only to accept FMOSS opens. will be open. clearing transactions

conditions and

to open recommendation bale ilar toes be done by PDEx The MCDs (FMOSS, PSO, and CD) and the affected ROBs will make the appropriate of head of ROB Group. / PDS Group

announcement to their counterparties.

- Infectious diseases outbreak

NRoSS will open if there is fixed income trading.

b. announced before 9:00 a.m. due to emergency situati i es Open if FMOSS is open - Typhoon signal no. 2/3 - Heavy rains (Red) Announcement of ; — flooding Opening on the second and succeeding days will be decided by the Governor before 6:00 a.m. Affected ROBs i , ; - Conflagration -Inci o i Rhansive berepottehor sities upon the BSP-Incident Management Team's (IMT) recommendation. Reserve dayI will open after - Armed or civil conflict _ - if the favorable . Open if BSP Phi/PaSS will - Strong earthquakes and tsunamis Day 2 If the BSP opens, only the Mission-Critical Departments (MCDs) shall go to work. GaueRrar agsasenanior Announcement of fixed Announcement ofI open to settle Checks and - Force majeure events onwards MCD employees affected by the emergency, however, are exempted from going to work. decides BSP income trading will be FI Settlement will PESONet Transactions

Page 2 of 4

## Page 4

Type of Holiday

c. announced on a Saturday or Sunday to take effect the following Monday or on a non working holiday to take effect the next business day/suspension is localized (e.g. Araw ng Maynila, SONA, Quezon City Day, ### APEC,

Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Financial Market Operations Sub-Sector I Payments and Settlements Office

Trading and Settlement of ODF, OLF, TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP Securities, and USD/PHP

Cash Dept. (CD) Withdrawal PhilPaSS

BSP will be closed on the first day.

upon the BSP-IMT's recommendation.

Opening on the second and succeeding days will be decided by the Governor before 6:00 a.m.

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS

Regional Offices and Branches (ROBs)

Reserve Position

Affected ROBs will close for

localized holidays,

other ROBs will be open.

ROBs will be open if holiday is for Metro Manila only. If holiday is

Reserve day localized, only

### PDTC EQ Depository ### PDTC FI Depository DVP ### PSSC PVP

BTr/ BAP / MART / PDS Group

Open if FMOSS is open

Announcement of USD/PHP spot trading

will be done by BAP. IOPE” if FMOSS is

open

Papal Visit, etc.) Under if the affected ROBs Open if BSP Phi/PASS will

unfavorable The BSP will make the conditions declaration of favorable or unfavorable condition before 6:00 a.m.

d. announced after 9:00 a.m. on the date of effectivity and

BSP operations have already ICAUSe of

holiday will

If the BSP opens, only the Mission-Critical Departments (MCDs) shall go to work. MCD employees affected by the emergency, however, are exempted from going to work.

The MCDs (FMOSS, PSO, and CD) and the affected ROBs will make the appropriate announcement to their counterparties.

Assess situation and if possible, retain a skeleton force and

Governor decides BSP to open

will be closed.

ROB will open after assessment of conditions and recommendation of head of ROB.

Announcement of fixed income trading will be done by PDEx / PDS

Group.

Announcement of

FI Settlement will

be done by PDEx / PDS Group.

NROoSS will open if there is fixed income trading.

Open if FMOSS is open

Announcement of

open to settle Checks and PESONet Transactions

Normal

Reserve dayI Affected ROBs require if the will close for evacuation : , Governor localized holidays, cai Announcement of FMOSS operations will be done by BSP-FMOSS. decides BSPI other ROBs will

rthquake, - A . . is fire) aie Announcement of Phi/PaSS opening/closing will be done by BSP-PSO. a nee om

started implement extended end of day protocol. Open if BSP PhilPaSS will open to settle Checks and

PESONet Transactions

Announcement of fixed income trading will be done by PDEx / PDS

Group.

Announcement of

Fl Settlement will

be done by PDEx / PDS Group.

NRoSS will open if there is fixed income trading.

Page 3 of 4

## Page 5

### STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR PHILIPPINE HOLIDAYS Appendix 88/Q-51

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas ### PDTC EQ Depository ### PDTC FI Depository DVP ### PSSC PVP

Financial Market Operations Sub-Sector ### (FMOSS)

Payments and Settlements Office

(PSO) BTr/ BAP / MART /

Regional Offices e PDS Group

and Branches (ROBs)

Type of Holiday Reserve

Position

Cash Dept. (CD)

Trading and Settlement of ODF, OLF, Withdrawal

TDF, Overnight RRP Facility, BSP Securities, and USD/PHP

PhilPaSS

4. Trading holiday declared by the BSP Governor due to emergency situations such as infectious diseases outbreak, lockdown, and other similar situations. Triggers for the BSP Governor to consider such a declaration includes, but is not limited to, a declaration by the President, the Secretary of Health, or any competent government official duly authorized by law of a Code Red Sublevel Two (2), or of the

imposition of community quarantine in the entirety of Metro Manila. No clearing; no settlement.

Closed Affected ROBs

a. announced before 9:00 a.m.

Day 2 onwards

b. announced after 9:00 a.m. on the date of effectivity and BSP operations have already started

Settlements and maturities will be Closed moved to the next banking day when

FMOSS opens.

Opening on the second and succeeding days will be decided by the Governor before 6:00 a.m. upon the BSP-IMT's recommendation.

If the BSP opens, only the Mission-Critical Departments (MCDs) shall go to work. MCD employees affected by the emergency, however, are exempted from going to work.

The MCDs (FMOSS, PSO, and CD) and the affected ROBs will make the appropriate announcement to their counterparties.

Assess situation and if possible, retain a skeleton force and implement extended end of day protocol.

Announcement of FMOSS operations will be done by BSP-FMOSS.

Announcement of Phi/PaSS opening/closing will be done by BSP-PSO.

Page 4 of 4

will be closed.

Open if FMOSS is open

Announcement of USD/PHP spot trading

will be done by BAP, I0P2n if FMOSS is

open

Affected ROBs will open after favorable assessment of conditions and recommendation of head of ROB

Reserve day if the Governor decides BSP to open

Announcement of fixed income trading will be done by PDEx / PDS

Group.

Announcement of

FI Settlement will

be done by PDEx / PDS Group

NRoSS will open if there is fixed income trading.

Open if FMOSS is open

Announcement of USD/PHP spot trading

will be done by BAP, [Pen if FMOSS is

Affected ROBs open will close for localized holidays, other ROBs will

be open.

Non-reserve day when FMOSS is

closed

Announcement of fixed income trading will be done by PDEx / PDS

Group.

Announcement of

FI Settlement will

be done by PDEx / PDS Group.

NRoSS will open if there is fixed income trading.

its members that its System

PCHC will issue an advisory to Closed Non-reserve Unaffected ROBs Closed Closed wil be open: clearing transactions

remains open only to accept

Open if BSP Phi/PaSS will open to settle Checks and PESONet Transactions

Open if BSP Phi/PaSS will open to settle Checks and PESONet Transactions

