### # M-2021-066

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-066

### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ### (BSFI) Subject : GUIDELINES ON THE USE OF DATA ENTRY

### TEMPLATES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR ISSUANCE ### OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORITY TO REGISTER ### AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF ### INCORPORATION/ARTICLES OF COOPERATION ### AND BY-LAWS

To promote efficiency in processing of applications for issuance of Certificate of Authority (COA) to register amendments to Articles of Incorporation (AOI)/Articles of Cooperation (AOC) and By-Laws (BL) and to avoid the return of applications due to errors and alterations of prescribed templates, the following guidelines are issued to facilitate the use of data entry templates! (DET) pursuant to Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Memorandum No. 2020-058? dated 16 July 2020.

a. All BSP Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) intending to submit an application for issuance of COA to register amendments to AOI/AOC and BL should download and use the corresponding files of the prescribed Data Entry Templates’ from www.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting templates.

b. The scanned and hard copy of the application letter together with the documentary requirements® should both be submitted to the BSP through the appropriate supervising department of the BSFI. The scanned copy of the documents should be electronically submitted to fssmail@bsp.gov.oh copy furnished the appropriate head of the supervising department in compliance with BSP Memorandum No. M-2021-036 dated 28 June 2021 on the Guidelines on the Submission of Reports/Documents and

1 Uses Microsoft Word file editing restriction feature

2 Documentary Requirements for the Amendment of Articles of Incorporation/Articles of Cooperation and By-Laws

3 All documents to be submitted must be in two (2) copies and original except for Securities and Exchange Commission - certified AOl and BL, and Cooperative Development Authority - certified AOC and BL in case of cooperative banks.

Page 1 of 2

## Page 2

Communications through the BSP Financial Supervision Sector Mail-In Account.

The DET shall be strictly used for templates under Annexes A to E. However, BSFls are given flexibility to provide additional covenants for the Subscription Agreement* (Annex F) as warranted.

BFSIs are likewise reminded to comply with the requirements provided under BSP Memorandum No. M-2020-077 dated 28 September 2020 on the Web-Based Self-Assessment Questionnaire for Applications for the Grant of a License or Special Authority before submitting to the BSP an application for issuance of COA to register anendments to AOI/AOC and BL.

This Memorandum shall apply to all initial requests and applications submitted effective 15 December 2021.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.12.03

15:10:43 +08'00"

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

03 December 2021

“ BSFls can use the template as reference and prepare the agreement depending on their requirements (e.g., multiple subscribers, additional covenants, among others).

Page 2 of 2 