### # M-2024-006

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. 2024- O06

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Prioritization of the Philippine Identification (PhilID) and Other Recognized Formats in the List of Acceptable Identification Documents (ID)

In support of the Philippine Statistics Authority’s (PSA) ongoing efforts to promote the effective implementation of the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys), the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) reminds all BSFls to adopt enhanced measures to ensure the broad acceptance of the PhillD in physical card or other recognized formats, including the ePhillD, as a valid and sufficient proof of identity and age, subject to authentication, in all financial transactions. Consistent with the Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11055 or the PhilSys Act and its Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations (RIRR)!, Executive Order (EO) No. 162 dated 14 February 20222, and related issuances of the PSA and the BSP, the PhillD shall serve as the official government-issued ID in dealing with all national government agencies, local government units, government-owned or controlled corporations, government financial institutions, and all private sector entities. BSFls may utilize the PhilSys Check?, an offline identity authentication tool which utilizes public-private key cryptography to verify the authenticity of both the PhillD and ePhillD. Verification through the PhilSys Check requires the presentation of the PhillD or ePhillD and scanning of the QR code therein. The data stored in the QR code should match the information printed on the face of the ID to validate the identity of the registered person and the authenticity of the card.

Under BSP Memorandum Nos. M-2021-057 and M-2022-044, BSFls are directed to include the PhillD/printed ePhillD and/or other recognized formats, in the list of valid IDs displayed on their counters and the public entrance of their establishments, as well as on their official websites, social media pages, and other consumer information channels. BSFls are enjoined to place the PhillD and ePhillD, being the official government-issued ID, on the top of the list of acceptable valid IDs to be displayed in conspicuous places within their premises and be featured in their consumer information channels and/or promotional materials. Further, BSFls are required to disseminate extensively this subject Memorandum to all concerned personnel and branches to promote wider acceptance of the PhillD and its recognized formats.

For guidance and implementation. Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2024.02.15 18:11:38 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

15 February 2024

' https://psa.gov.ph/system/files?file=psa-board/Signed-Revised-IRR-RA1I055-1.odf 2 https:/Awww.officialgazette.gov.oh/2022/02/14/executive-order-no-162-s-2022/ 3 Attps://philsys.gov.ph/philsys-check/

