### # M-2021-060

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-060

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of Consolidated Daily Report of Condition (CDRC) and Weekly Report on Required and Available Reserves ### (WRRAR)

Pursuant to Circular No. 1081', Circular No. 1061? and Section 251 of the Manual of Regulations of Banks*®, the following submission guidelines shall be observed beginning reserve report week-ending ### 11 November 2021:

Submission Guidelines

1. All Banks shall use the updated list of the prescribed valid record numbers, along with the corresponding prescribed Comma-Separated Values (CSV) file structure for CDRC and prescribed Data Entry Templates (DET) for WRRAR and Control Prooflist (CP) which’ can be downloaded from www. bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates or may be directly requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through dsareports@bsp.gov.ph. In requesting the said template, covered institutions shall follow the prescribed format as the subject, {REQUEST] CDRC/WRRAR Template.

2. Beginning report reference week ending 11 November 2021, banks shall submit the updated CSV or DET and CP through the FI Portal within the prescribed deadlines.

1 Amendments to the Regulations Governing the Personal Equity and Retirement Account (PERA) dated 04 March 2020

* Amendment to the Definition of a Deposit Substitute dated 25 November 2019

3 Accounts Subject to Reserves; Amounts Required

## Page 2

3. Banks that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the CSV or DET in any portable storage device (e.g. USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed ### deadline to:

The Officer-In-Charge

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

4. Report submissions should continue to comply with existing BSP reporting standards. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted, subjected to validation and applicable penalties for reporting violations.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by ,Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.11.05

14:23:52 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

05 November 2021

Page 2 of 2 