### # M-2024-005

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024-005

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of Reserve-Related Reports

Pursuant to BSP Circular Nos. 1185' dated 13 December 2023 and 11762 dated 29 June 2023, the following guidelines shall be observed in the submission of the reserve-related reports of banks to streamline information provided in these reports beginning reserve report week-ending 11 January ### 2024:

1. Anew reserve-related report format shall be used by banks in view of the implementation of the above-mentioned circulars. Parallel run of the new reserve-related reports, which shall be used for the API-based submission, shall cover the reference weeks-ending 11 January 2024 to 22 February 2024.

2. The existing reserve-related reports being submitted through the Financial Institution Portal (Fl Portal) pursuant to existing submission guidelines shall continue to be considered as the official submission of banks for reference weeks-ending 11 January 2024 to 22 February 2024.

3. The live submission of the new reserve-related reports shall start with the reference week-ending 29 February 2024. Banks shall submit the updated XML through the BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS)/Rest Application Programming Interface (RAPI) within the prescribed deadlines.

4. The Report Template, Control Prooflist (CP) and XML Schema Definition (XSD) can be downloaded from the Report Details module of the Integral Financial Supervision System (IFSS) Submission Portal under the BRMS which can be accessed at https://brms.bsp.gov.ph using the latest version of web browsers such as Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.

5. The generated XML, together with the scanned CP, duly signed by the authorized officials of the reporting banks, shall be submitted via the ### API facility, in accordance with the following specifications:

1 Grant of Additional Single Borrower's Limit for Financing Eligible Projects and Zero Percent Reserve Requirement Rate Against Sustainable Bonds

2 Amendments to the Rules and Regulations on the Reserves Against Deposits and Deposit substitute Liabilities of Banks

## Page 2

Report Name Report Institution Files for File Code Submission extension/ Format Consolidated CDRC Universal and CDRC Report in XML Daily Report of Commercial - Condition Banks (UKBs) Control CP in PDF (CDRC) and Digital Prooflist Banks

CDRC for Thrift CDRC_TB I TBs CDRC_TB Report in XML Banks (TBs)

Control CP in PDF

Prooflist Weekly Report WRRAR Rural and WRRAR Report in XML on Required and Cooperative - Available Banks (RCBs) Control CP in PDF Reserves Against Prooflist Deposit Liabilities ### (WRRAR)

Detailed guidelines on the implementation of APlI-based submission via machine-to-machine modality and the use of IFSS Submission Portal of covered institutions are provided in Memorandum No. M- 2023-022 dated 20 July 2023.

6. During the parallel run period, banks shall report the amount of Bonds Payable gross of the issued Sustainable Bonds? in their CDRC and WRRAR submitted through the FI Portal. The amount of issued Sustainable Bonds and Other Bonds shall be reported separately to

BSPFIPortal@bsp.gov.ph using the prescribed excel template (Annex ### A).

7. Report submissions shall continue to comply with existing BSP reporting standards. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted and validated, subject to applicable sanctions for reporting violations as provided under Section 171 of the MORB.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2024.01.23

09:38:30 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

23 January 2024

3 As defined in Section 251 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB), as amended by BSP Circular No. 1185 dated 13 December 2023.

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

Annex A

Name of Bank Code

Address

Breakdown of Bonds Payable

For the Week to

AMOUNT (In Pesos)

Record ee [Pf el

i. Bonds [.BondsPayable I

ee I pothersonds I aes I I I I I

1 This shall include outstanding and new issuances of green, social, sustainability and other sustainable bonds as defined under relevant regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and/or other relevant regional or international standards acceptable to the market which may include but not limited to the issuances of the International Capital Markets Association or endorsement of the ASEAN Capital Markets Forum.

