### # M-2022-008

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022-008

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL BANKS, TRUST CORPORATIONS (TCs) AND ### NON-STOCK SAVINGS AND LOANS ASSOCIATIONS (NSSLAs)

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of the Supplemental

Report to the Financial Reporting Package (FRP) on Modified and Restructured Loans

In line with BSP Memorandum No. M-2022-001 dated 11 January 2022 on the submission of Supplemental Report to the FRP on Modified and Restructured Loans by all covered BSFls, the following are the submission guidelines that shall be observed ### beginning report as of end-September 2021:

A. Submission Guidelines

1. All BSFls under the FRP Framework shall use the Supplemental Report to the FRP Data Entry Template (DET) and its corresponding Control Prooflist (CP) which can be downloaded from www.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting templates or directly requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) through DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph. In requesting the said files, covered BSFIs shall follow the prescribed format as the subject, [REQUEST] FRP_SRL Template.

2. All covered BSFls shall submit the Supplemental Reports to the FRP (Solo and Consolidated basis) DET and CP as of end- September 2021 and end-December 2021 through the DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph on or before 15 February 2022.

The supplemental reports for the periods beginning end- January 2022 shall be submitted to DSA within the following ### deadlines:

## Page 2

Industry Deadline

UKBs/ 15 banking days after end of reference month for TBs solo basis and 30 banking days after end of reference quarter for consolidated basis

RBs/ TCs 15 banking days after end of reference quarter

NSSLAs 30 calendar days after end of reference quarter

3. All covered BSFls shall apply the prescribed format for the ### subject:

FRP_SRL<space>BSFI Name,<space><Reference period>

For example,

To : DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FRP_SRL BSFI Name, 30 September 202] and using the prescribed file naming convention, as illustrated ### below: File File Name File Format DET FRP_SRL- basis’ xls CP FRP_SRL-basis-CP? pdf

4. All covered BSFls shall only use e-mail addresses officially registered with the DSA in electronically submitting reports in accordance with BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017. The same registered e-mail address/es shall be used by the DSA in acknowledging the submitted reports.

5. All covered BSFls that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the DET and CP in any portable storage device (e.g. USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the ### prescribed deadline addressed to:

The Department Head

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Tith Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

'Where basis is the type of report (i.e., SOLO or CONSO), i.e., FRP_SRL-SOLO.xls, FRP_SRL-CONSO.xIs ? Where basis is the type of report (i.e., SOLO or CONSO), i.e., FRP_SRL-SOLO-CP.pdf, FRP_SRL-CONSO-CP.pdf

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

6. Queries regarding the Supplemental Reports to the FRP, its related regulations and guidelines shall be sent via e-mail to DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph following the prescribed format for the subject, [INQUIRY] FRP_SRL.

B. Important Reminders

### 1. The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission:

a. b.

c. d. e.

Failure to use an officially registered e-mail address; Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date;

Failure to use the correct templates;

Transmitting to the wrong e-mail address; and

Failure to use the prescribed file names and file format.

2. Report submissions that do not conform with the prescribed procedures shall not be accepted and will be considered non- compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to applicable penalties for late and/or erroneous submission.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.02.07 10:50:17 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

O07 February 2022

Page 3 of 3 