### # M-2020-087

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2020- 087

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

Subject : Amendments to the Regulatory Relief on the Non-Reporting of Past Due and Non-Performing Loans under Memorandum No. M-2020-008, as Amended by Memorandum No. M-2020-032

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1535 dated 26 November 2020, approved amendments to BSP regulations related to the regulatory relief on the non- reporting of past due and non-performing loans.

Section 1. Annex A of Memorandum No. M-2020-008 dated 14 March 2020, as amended by Memorandum No. M-2020-032 dated 27 April 2020, is hereby further amended to, ### read as follows:

1. Xxx

2. Upon grant by BSFls of a temporary grace period for payment or upon approval of the restructuring, but subject to reporting to Bangko Sentral, exclusion from the past due and non-performing classification, the loans of borrowers in affected areas which should have been reclassified as past due under Sec. 304/303-Q of the MORB/MORNEBEFI, as of 8 March 2020, the date of declaration of the President of the state of public health emergency under Presidential Proclamation No. 922, including those loans becoming past due or non- performing until 31 December 2020. xxx

### 3. XXX Section 2. Memorandum No. M-2020-061 dated 3 August 2020 is hereby amended to ### read, as follows:

### XXX

xxx The supervisory expectations likewise set out the prudential treatment of the implementation of xx the relief measures granted by the Bangko Sentral under Memorandum No. M-2020-008, as amended.

### XXX

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines * (632) 708-7701 * www.bsp.gov.ph * bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

Section 3. Annex A of Memorandum No. M-2020-061 is hereby amended to read, as ### follows:

### XXX

Section 3. Treatment of Relief Measures? Granted by the Bangko Sentral

### XXX

1 As provided under BSP Memorandum No. M-2020-008 — Regulatory Relief for BSFls affected by the COVID-19, as amended

### XXX

For guidance and implementation.

Digitally signed by DG Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 02 December 2020

### HUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

02 December 2020

Page 2 of 2 