### # M-2021-019

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-_019

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFls)

Subject : Availability and Security of Digital Financial Services (DFS) and Automated Teller Machines (ATM) during Holy Week

In view of the observance of the Holy Week, BSFls should ensure that essential financial and banking services are available to meet the needs of financial consumers. With the community quarantine protocols still in place in many parts of the country, BSFls are expected to continuously monitor availability and security of their ATMs and digital financial platforms such as internet and mobile banking applications during the Holy Week. BSFls should likewise monitor and maintain sufficient cash levels of their ATMs to be able to serve customers’ cash requirements. Furthermore, BSFls are reminded to be on guard as cyberattacks and electronic fraud typically intensify during long weekends and holidays.

Scheduled downtime or system upgrades within this period should be properly communicated to customers to enable them to adequately plan their financial transactions. Customers should also be reminded to be alert and immediately report to concerned BSFls any unusual transactions or activities in their account.

For any adverse events affecting availability and security of DFS, BSFls are reminded to submit the necessary reports to the BSP in compliance with the reporting and notification standards under section 148 of the MORB and 147-Q/145-S/142- P/126-N of the MORNBFI.

Digitally signed

For information and guidance. by ChuchiG.

*Fonacier Date: 2021.03.29 18:29:03 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

29 March 2021

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines ¢ (632) 87087701 * www.bsp.gov.ph © bspmail@bsp.gov.ph 