### # M-2021-016

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021- 016

To : ALL BSP SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFls)

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of Information Technology (IT) Profile Report

Pursuant to Section 148 of the Manual of Regulation for Banks (MORB) and Section 147-Q/145-S/142-P/126-N of the Manual of Regulation for Non-Banks Financial Institutions (MORNBFI) on Information Technology Risk Management, all BSFls shall observe the following guidelines for the electronic submission of the IT Profile Report, superseding Memorandum No. M-2012-011 on the Guidelines on the Submission of IT Profile Report dated 17 February 2012.

Submission Guidelines

1. All BSFls shall use the prescribed IT Profile Data Entry Template (DET) which can be downloaded from http://www.bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates.

2. The DET shall be submitted electronically within twenty-five (25) calendar days from the end of reference year.

3. For reference period, 31 December 2020, report will be due on or before 31 March 2021. The original deadline, as provided in Item 2 above shall be observed for the electronic submission of the IT Profile Report for the succeeding periods.

4. The electronic submissions shall be transmitted to the prescribed e-mail ### addresses, as follows:

Type of Institution Email Address Universal/Commercial Banks dsakb-itprofile@bsp.gov.ph Thrift Banks dsatb-itprofile@bsp.gov.ph Rural/Cooperative Banks dsarb-itprofile@bsp.gov.ph Trust Corporations dsatc-itprofile@bsp.gov.ph Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFls) dsanbfi-itprofile@bsp.gov.ph

### using the following prescribed format as subject:

ITPROFILE<space><Name of BSFI>,<space><Reference period in dd MMM YYYY>

For Example,

## Page 2

To : dsakb-itprofile@bsp.gov.ph Subject : ITPROFILE Sample BSFI, 31 December 2020

### and using the following prescribed file name and file format:

File File Name File Format Data Entry Template IT Profile xls

5. Pursuant to BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017 and BSP Memoranda Nos. 2017-014 and 2017-015 both dated 31 March 2017, BSFls shall use only e-mail addresses officially registered with the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) in electronically submitting reports. The same registered e-mail addresses shall be used by the DSA in acknowledging the submitted reports and transmitting the corresponding validation results.

6. BSFls that are unable to transmit via email may submit the DET using any portable storage device (e.g. USB flash drive) and submit the same through messengerial or ### postal services within the prescribed deadline to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

11th Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

Important Reminders

### 1. The following may result in erroneous or failed submission, among others: a. Failure to use/send the correct/updated templates;

Failure to use an officially registered email address;

Transmitting to the wrong email address;

Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date;

Failure to use the prescribed file names; and

Failure to use the correct file formats;

>~o9 A205

2. Report submissions that do not conform to the above prescribed guidelines shall not be accepted and will be considered non-compliant with the BSP reporting requirements as prescribed under Section 173 of the MORB and Section 147- Q/145-S/142-P/126-N of the MORNBFI. Moreover, only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted as compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to validation and applicable penalties for delayed, erroneous, and/or unsubmitted reporting.

3. Queries regarding IT Profile Report and its related regulations may be coursed

through email to TRISD@bsp.gov.ph.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

Digitally signed by Chuchi G. *Fonacier Date: 2021.03.17 15:28:41 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

For compliance.

17 March 2021

Page 3 of 3 