### # M-2024-013

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024- _ O13

To : ALL UNIVERSAL/COMMERCIAL BANKS (UBs/KBs) and their SUBSIDIARY BANKS and QUASI-BANKS (QBs)

Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of the Report on Large Exposures (LEX)

Pursuant to the Prudential Framework for Large Exposures Monitoring Threshold as embodied under BSP Circular No. 1150 dated 23 August 2022, the following guidelines shall be observed in the submission of the Report on Large Exposures beginning with the reporting period ### 31 December 2023:

1. The XML Schema Definition (XSD), corresponding Control Prooflist (CP) and Data Structure can be downloaded from the Report Details module of the Integral Financial Supervision System (IFSS) Submission Portal under the BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS) which can be accessed at https:/brms.bsp.gov.ph using the latest version of web browsers such as Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.

2. The XML, together with the scanned CP, duly signed by the authorized officials of the concerned BSP Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls), shall be submitted via the API facility, in accordance with the following ### specifications:

Report Code Files for Submission File extension/ Format LEX Report in XML ### LEX Control Prooflist CP in PDF

3. The LEX report shall be submitted every semester for both solo and consolidated bases on or before 15 banking days after reference period. The end-December 2023 report shall be submitted to the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) on or before 31 May 2024. Subsequent reporting periods shall be due within the prescribed deadline.

For covered banks

4. Detailed guidelines on the implementation of APl-based submission via machine-to-machine modality and the use of IFSS Submission Portal of covered institutions are provided in Memorandum No. M-2023-022 dated 20 July 2023.

## Page 2

For Subsidiary QBs

5.

Subsidiary QBs shall accomplish the registration form prescribed under Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017 and identify a maximum of two (2) authorized officers who will be allowed to access the IFSS under the BRMS.

In generating their XML reports, subsidiary QBs may use either their own XML converter facility or BSP XML converter facility, which is made available in the IFSS Submission Portal under the BRMS.

Subsidiary QBs shall submit their generated XML report through machine-to-machine modality using the QB’s chosen process as coordinated with the BSP. In case submission via machine-to-machine is not yet available, covered QBs may use the IFSS Submission Portal under the BRMS until further notice.

Other Submission Guidelines

8. Report submissions should continue to comply with existing BSP

9. Queries regarding the LEX Report submission guidelines shall be sent via e-mail to DSAReports@bsp.gov.ph following the prescribed format as the subject, [INQUIRY] LEX Report.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by

. Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2024.04.26 22:04:27 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor 26 April 2024

reporting standards. It likewise follows that only files prescribed by the BSP for the report shall be accepted and validated, subject to applicable sanctions for reporting violations as provided under Section 171/172-Q of the Manual of Regulations for Banks/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions.

Page 2 of 2 