### # M-2023-027

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MONETARY AND ECONOMICS SECTOR ### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2023-027

To : ALL BANKS

Subject : Submission of Forms to Secure Access to the International Transactions Reporting System (ITRS) Module

In view of the pilot testing of the ITRS as scheduled in November to December 2023, the banks are advised to accomplish the following ### attached forms:

1. BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS) User Registration Form (URF);' and 2. Certificate Signing Request (CSR).

The CSR will be accomplished only if the banks opt to use the machine-to-machine reporting. The accomplished URF and CSR forms shall be submitted via an email to ESSG-ITRS@bsp.gov.ph under the Department of Economic Statistics (DES) using the following prescribed ### subject format and file naming convention:

Subject: ITRS<space>URF<space><Bank Name> URF Filename: ITRS_URF_<Bank Name>.pdf CSR Filename: ITRS_CSR_<Bank Name>.paf

For example,

To: ESSG-ITRS@bsp.gov.ph

Subject: ITRS URF BankA

URF Filename: ITRS_URF_Bank_A.pdf CSR Filename: ITRS_CSR_Bank_A.pdf

Kindly submit the accomplished and duly signed forms by Wednesday, 27 September 2023. For further queries, you may call (632) 8-708-7692.

For information and compliance.

Famiee Geb ### FRANCISCO G. DAKILA, JR. Deputy Governor

Ze September 2023

1 Existing BRMS Portal users who were granted access to the BSP Financial Institution

_ Portal (Fl Portal) are required to submit an updated URF to secure access to the ITRS

7 ‘module. and be. provided with Two-Factor Authentication Credentials and/or Digital ~_ : ’ Certificate, whichever is applicable.

“Classification: GENERAL", + * . . : HES - 0922 23.- iI

## Page 2

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITAL INNOVATION OFFICE

### USER REGISTRATION BSP Relationship Management System

### I. REQUESTOR INFORMATION

(To be accomplished by new registration/replacement of existing user

Name of Bank/Institution Date of Request

Complete Unit No. Address Village/ Subd. Po Barangay

Authorized User - _(lastName)——=«I~SSFirstName) I (Middle Name)

Position Title of Department/ Office/ Unit/

Authorized User Group

E-mailaddress I_I Contact Number

il. DETAILS OF REQUEST

### e of Request: ### (1) I NEW USER ### 0 New registration A. Registration for: M BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS) Portal 0 Agent Registry OC IOD Portal ### 1 CRIMS 1 ORLS ### M IFSS Submission Portal x] Others: ITRS Weekly Report and/or ITRS Monthly Report M Machine-to-Machine (for Digital Certificate) 0 Replacement of Please accomplish Annex A - Certificate Signing Request (CSR)

existing user’ B. Existing user to be replaced: (applicable for the replacement of existing user)

Name of Existing User Email address

U I EXISTING USER: Name of Existing User

Email address

### OC Update User C. Specify information to be updated:

Information/Access Bea aS ees ee

### D. User Access: Add: [TRS Weekly Report and /or ITRS Monthly Report OC Revoke: [specify application system/module]

(See Item ILA for the list of modules for reference)

0 Delete/Remove E. Delete Access and User

Existing User Effective Date

Note: Request must be submitted at least 30 days before the effective date.

### L_

'Two-factor authentication of the existing user will be deleted/removed.

## Page 3

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITAL INNOVATION OFFICE

### USER REGISTRATION BSP Relationship Management System

Agreement

I hereby certify that all the information provided are true and correct and I acknowledge that Iam binding myself to comply with the Terms and Condition/Participation Agreement of the BSP Relationship Management System.

Signature over Printed Name Date

of Authorized User

ill. APPROVAL OF REQUEST

### Certified by:

This is to further certify that only electronic submissions originating from the authorized user of the [Name of Bank/Institution] shall be accepted and recognized by the BSP - Department of Economic Statistics as the official submission.

2Signature over Printed Name of Date

Designated signatory per Corporate Secretary

0 be accomplished by BSP-concerned Department/Office,

### Module/s to be accessed:

CO Approved 0 Denied

### Date:

### REDENTOR PAOLO M. ALEGRE, JR.// SENIOR DIRECTOR/ DES Signature over Printed Name of the Authorized Approver

With existing access to other modules? (L] YES / L] NO)

### Remarks:

ACTION/S TAKEN: (applicable only for approved request)

Registration to BRMS Portal: (TDIO Administrator

Signature over Printed Name of TDIO Administrator

Signature over Printed Name of Authorized BSP Department/Office Administrator

### Remarks:

### Remarks:

? Authorized official for this registration form should belong to authorized signatory for category A-3 reports per Manual of Regulations on Foreign Exchange Transactions.

## Page 4

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITAL INNOVATION OFFICE

### USER REGISTRATION BSP Relationship Management System

### Accomplish and Submit User Registration Form (URF):

E Email for ° New User (New Temporary r Registration/ Password ### f : 6 Download User “came dees Apeopeiean Part) negra Change Password ee) Registration Form Sf nd Part ILA and/or and Set-up £ a (URF) from the BSP [Ps . Hs Account in the a Start Website BRMS Portal -

2 5 Existing User oer I o = (Updating of User uv g Information or

I A 2 ancomioniats or Affix Signature

I E § lemove:Lsar Accomplish Part and Submit URF to oe;

I 5s I= I.C/D/E Concerned BSP > Existing User 3s I 2 ——— Department/Office 7) = BRMS User Registration Form End ### me] Legend: = Part I: Requestor information Part ll. Details of Request 2 A Registration for Q B. Existing user to be repiaced £ C. Specify information to be updated 8 D. User access 2 E Delete Access and User

### Reminders:

1. Submit the accomplished and signed form/s to: (as applicable depending on the selected module/s to be accessed)

I Modules I ~—s BSP Department/Office _I ~Emailaddress — Address

Agent Registry Financial oe aaaton Office (FIO) IFSS Submission Portal Department of Supervisory ORLS Analytics (DSA)

### (CRSU) ITRS Department of Economic Statistics

Note: For any inquiries/clarification, you may send an email to the concerned BSP Department/Office.

2. User Registration Form with incomplete/inaccurate information will be returned to the requestor. 3. The new user must immediately change password and set up account in the BRMS Portal (https://brms.bsp.gov.ph/) upon receipt of the temporary password. ### Note: Password may contain combination of the following: e Alphanumeric characters; e Both upper and lower case characters (e.g. a-z, A-Z); and, e Special characters (e.g. 'I@#$%&"*()+I~-=\'{}[]:""'<>?,./) 4. Password must not be shared with anybody. Registered user/s must be responsible in I protecting the secrecy of password.

### SS

## Page 5

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITAL INNOVATION OFFICE

### USER REGISTRATION BSP Relationship Management System

### TERMS AND CONDITIONS

The BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS) is a common integrated system available to provide digital services to BSP Stakeholders.

The BRMS can be used for registration, licensing, reportorial, advisory, and other related ### services. It is a Portal which enables participant!’ to do the following:

a. submit report for processing;

b. get report status; and

c. get report status file.

The requested user access is provided for the exclusive use of the participant. New participants are required to accomplish and submit the User Registration Form (URF) to request for a digital certificate/ log-in credential to authorize report submission and facilitate access/connectivity with the system.

The BSP shall handle the Administrator function of the system.

The participant shall be responsible for any hardware/software upgrades required to support remote access to the system.

It is the participant's responsibility to ensure that only those registered users are authorized to access the system. Propagating the system configuration is considered a security breach and is a ground for the termination of the access to the system. The BSP can revoke, block, or permanently disallow the use of the system without prior notice due to reasons that may compromise internal security. The BRMS system and all information inside is the sole property of the BSP. Any unauthorized distribution, dissemination or use of any information, media, and the like, outside of its intended purpose is not allowed.

### Subject to the participant's registration:

a. The system will send a credential login request to the registered email. That email will contain a one-time link that will prompt end-user to enroll his/her password; and The concerned BSP Department/Office will provide instructions on how to access the system, URL, and username that participant will use.

The BSP shall not be held responsible for any loss, liability or damage caused by errors and mistakes of the participant or by processing failures as a consequence of machine/computer malfunctions due to fortuitous events/force majeure or analogous causes and shall be held free and harmless from claims, suits, costs and damages attributable thereto. Furthermore, the BSP shall not be made party to any dispute nor be held answerable for any liability in connection with, arising out of, or in relation to any transactions covered by this URF. The BSP shall be held free and harmless from claims, suits, costs, and damages attributable to the participant.

Each participant shall be responsible in promptly checking the correctness of the submissions and generated results of the system as well as notifying BSP of any system errors so discovered.

## Page 6

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITAL INNOVATION OFFICE

### USER REGISTRATION BSP Relationship Management System

. Each participant shall be responsible for providing and/or establishing its own back-up/ contingency plans to ensure that electronic instructions shall be successfully transmitted to the system in the event of failure of its primary hardware and/or computer.

In case of any security breach or problem, the participant should report immediately to the concerned BSP Department/Office indicated in the URF, to trigger the investigation of the said security breach or problem and prompt corrective action can be performed. BSP has the right to disable a user account without prior notice in case of any suspected or reported incidents.

. Each participant expressly agrees to be legally bound by the electronic instruction it sends through the system provided they comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the URF. The BSP records will be the evidence of the participant's dealings with the BSP in connection with the system. The participant agrees to the admission of the BSP records as evidence in any legal proceeding although such records are electronic, not in writing or produced by a computer.

. This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Republic of the Philippines.

## Page 7

### ANNEXA

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### CERTIFICATE SIGNING REQUEST

I. The following details are to be provided in the creation of Certificate Signing ### Request (CSR):

Philippines Organization: Name of Bank/Institution

Organization Unit: Bank Code / Participation Code ### Common Name: FQDN of website: Example: abc.bank.com

Il. CSR shall be in .CSR or .ARM format.

lll. The authorized personnel listed in the User Registration Form shall manage the ### below processes involving Digital Certificate:

a. Sending of CSR to Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)

b. Acknowledging receipt of Digital Certificates (Server Certificate, Intermediate Certificate Authority and Root Certificate Authority) from ### BSP

c. Installation and usage of Digital Certificates

Definiti ‘I . Certificate Signing Request (CSR) - amessage sent from an applicant to a certificate authority of the public key infrastructure in order to apply for a digital identity certificate Fully Qualified Domain Name - sometimes also referred to as an absolute (FQDN) domain name, is a domain name that specifies its exact location in the tree hierarchy of the Domain Name System (DNS) - ifno domain name is registered, choose a name that will identify the organization/client bank Certificate Authority (CA) - an entity that stores, signs, and issues digital

certificates. A digital certificate certifies the ownership of a public key by the named subject of the certificate.

## Page 8

Guidelines in Filling the User Registration Form (URF) and Certificate Signing Request (CSR)

### A. For registration of a new user or replacement of an existing user:

1. Fill out Section I. Requestor Information.

### I. REQUESTOR INFORMATION (To be accomplished by new registration/replacement of existing user) Date of Request

Name of Bank/institution Bldg//Floor/ I Street Complete Unit No. Address Village/ Subd. Barangay City/ Municipality I Province Zip Code Name of Authorized User (Last Name) (First Name) (Middle Name) Position Title of Department/ Office/ Unit/ Authorized User Group E-mail address Contact Number

2. Under Il. Details of Request, select “New User” or “Existing User,” whichever is applicable.

### pe of Request: ### NEW USER 3 New registration

Tv

5 Replacement of existing user

### EXISTING USER:

3 Update User Information/Access

23 Delete/Remove Existing User

### 3. For New User:

### A. Registration for: @ BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS) Portal

3 Agent Registry 3 10D Portal

### 3 CRIMS OO ORLS ### IFSS Submission Portal = Others:

@ Machine-to-Machine (for Digital Certificate) Piease accomplish Annex A - Certificate Signing Request (CSF) B. Existing user to be replaced: (applicable for the replacement of existing user) Name of Existing User Email address Name of Existing User Email address 2 ### Cc. Specify information to be updated:

See /term IA for the list of modules for reference, &. Delete Access and User Effective Date Note. Request must be subniitted at feast JO days before the effective date.

a. Click “New Registration” or “Replacement of existing user,” whichever is applicable.

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 9

ll DETAILS OF REQUEST ### Type of Request: ### <= NEWUSER

@ZNewregistration I A I

C Replacement of existing user’ 8.

le

b. Select “IFSS Submission Portal” and “Others: ITRS Weekly Report and/or ITRS Monthly Report.”

### A. Registration for: [BSP Relationship Management System (BRMS) Portal

Agent Registry 0 IOD Portal ### CO CRIMS CO ORLS MIFSS Submission Portal & Others: I ITRS Monthly Report

c. If the bank will use Machine-to-Machine submission, tick also the “Machine-to-Machine (for Digital Certificate) and accomplish Annex A - Certificate Signing Request.

‘ ZI Machine-to-Machine (for Digital Certificate) Please accomplish Annex A - Certificate Signing Request (CSR)

d. For replacement of existing user, fill out B. Existing user to be replaced

B. Existing user to be replaced: (applicable for the replacement of existing user)

Name of Existing User Email address

B. For updating of credentials of an existing user (i.e., with existing BRMS ### credentials to access and report in the IFSS Submission Portal):

1. Fill out the information of the existing user (1) who will be given access to the ITRS Weekly or Monthly Module; or (2) whose access to the said module will be removed.

I J I EXISTING USER: Name of Existing User

Email address

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 10

2. If the existing BRMS-ITRS Module user will update his/her information, fill out C. Specify the information to be updated.

### Co Update User C. Specify information to be updated:

—

3. If the existing BRMS user will be given access to the ITRS Weekly or Monthly Report Module, select Add: /TRS Weekly Report and /or ITRS Monthly Report. \f access of the existing user to the module will be revoked, select Revoke and provide details.

### D. User Access:

1 Add: /TRS Weekly Report and /or ITRS Monthly Report

LC Revoke: [specify application system/module]

4. If the existing user will be given access to “Machine-to-Machine (for Digital Certificate), accomplish Annex A - Certificate Signing Request.

5. If the access of an existing user to the BRMS will be removed, select Delete/Remove Existing User and specify the effectivity date.

E. Delete Access and User ### Effective Date :

Co Delete/Remove Existing User

Note: Request must be submitted at least 30 days before the effective date.

Classification: GENERAL 