### # M-2021-051

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-os7

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL NON-BANKS WITH QUASI-BANKING FUNCTIONS (NBQBs) Subject : Submission of Consolidated Report on Required

and Available Reserves (CRRAR) through the BSP Financial Portal (FI Portal)

Pursuant to the on-going initiatives of maximizing available Information Technology infrastructure, the following guidelines shall be observed relative to the submission of CRRAR for NBQBs through ### the BSP FI Portal:

1. The BSP Fl Portal can be accessed at https://fiportal.bsp.gov.ph using compatible version of web browsers.’ Attached as Annex A is the BSP FI Portal Manual for guidance in navigating the portal.

2. The implementation of the Fl Portal will entail a parallel run period to be followed by live submission. The parallel run will cover reference weeks ending O7 October and 14 October 2021. The live submission will commence on reference week ending 21 October 2021.

3. Beginning reference week ending 07 October 2021, entities shall use the CRRAR Data Entry Template (DET), which can be downloaded from www.bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_ templates or may be directly requested from BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics through BSPF/Portal@bsp.gov.ph, using the following prescribed subject format -- [REQUEST] CRRAR Template.

1 At least Chrome 51/Win7, Firefox 31.3.0 ESR/Win7, Firefox 46/Win 7, Internet Explorer 11/Win 7, Edge 13/Win 10

2 The DET was updated in accordance with the provisions of Circular No. 1061 dated 25 November 2019 on the Amendment to the Definition of a Deposit Substitute

Page 1 of 2

## Page 2

4. During the parallel run, e-mail submissions using the same CRRAR template shall continue to be considered as the official submission of the entity. Upon live implementation, the submission to the FI Portal shall be considered official thus e-mail submissions shall be discontinued. Amendments to reports that are due prior to and during the parallel run shall still be submitted through e-mail.

5. A maximum of two (2) e-mail addresses shall be allowed to access the BSP FI Portal among the officially registered e-mail address/es of authorized officers of the entity pursuant to BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017. The said accounts must register for Two Factor Authentication (2FA) following the User Guide for 2FA registration which is attached as Annex B.

6. Entities will be advised accordingly on the actions they need to take, if any, in cases of temporary inability to access the BSP FI Portal due to periodic maintenance, unscheduled downtime and other similar situations.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.09.23

21:23:15 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

23 September 2021

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Financial Institution

Portal Manual

## Page 4

BSP Financial Institution Portal

Table of Contents

1. INTRODUCTION 00 eeccceccceeeeneeeeeaceceseeeesaaeceeaeeeesaeeeeeaaecesaeeeeaaaeseeaeeesaaeeeseaeeeseaeeeeeaaeseeaeeeesaaeeeeaeeess 2 1.1 OVEIVICW .... ee eeeececssnececeeeseeeceessaeeeeceeaaaeeeseeaaaeeesesesaeeeecesaaeeeeseeaaaeeeseeesaeeeeseeaaeeeesecsaaeeeeeeesaeereeees 2 1.2 MINIMUM REQUIFEMENTS ...0.. 0. eee e eee ceeeeeeennececeeceececeeeeeaeaaaaeeaeceeeeeeseeesaaaaeaaececeeeeeeeeeeseaaaaeaeeeeeees 3

2. PORTAL NAVIGATION 00... eeeccceessceceseeeeesaeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeaaeeceeeeeesaaeeeeseeeessaeeeseaeeseeaeeeeaaaeseeaeeeeaaeeeseaeeeseas 4 2.1 Getting Started” oe eeccscccccssssececcesssneeececesneeecseesneeeccseeneeeeeseeeaeeeceseseeeceseaeeeeseesaeeeeeeeseeeeeees 4 2.2 Report SUBMISSION MOCUIE..........ccccccceesssseccesseceececeeeaeceeceeaaeceeeeeaaaeeeceeeaaeeeeeseaaeceseeeaaaeeseeeeaas 6 2.3 Amendment MOdule........ceccccesssceceeeeeessceeeeseeeesaaeceeaeeeceaeecseaaeeceaeeeeeaaeseeaeeessaaeeeeaeeesaeeeseaeeeeeas 9 2.4 ASSESSMENt MOUIE...... ec eeeeeceessceceenceeceeeeeeaaeceeeeeecsaaeceeaaeeceseeeeeaaeeseeeeeesaeeseeaeecesaeeeeaeeseeeees 12 2.5 Report List MOGUIe 00.00... cccsccccescssececesesseeeeceeneeeecseauaeeecesesaeeeecsesueeeeceesaaeeeeeeesaeeeeeseaaeeeeeeeaaas 16 2.6 History MOUuIe .........ccccccccssssccecsessnececcseseeeeceeaeeeeceeaaeeeceeesueeeeesesaeeeeeeesaaeeeceeesaeeeeeseaaeeeeseeaaas 18

## Page 5

BSP Financial Institution Portal

### 1. INTRODUCTION

1.1 Overview

The BSP FI Portal is an online, secured, web-based facility where BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) can submit required reports and receive feedback on its status. It serves as a repository of the reports submitted by the BSFI to the BSP.

The BSP FI Portal also provides a means for the BSP and the BSFI to exchange official communications related to report submissions, such as results of validation, assessment letters, and other notices. It is the single point of reference for official submissions and correspondences coursed through the facility as duly authorized users of both the BSP and the BSFI have access to the same set of records, thereby enhancing transparency in addressing report-related concerns.

### The BSP FI Portal has two major components, as follows: ### A. The reporting process component is composed of the following stages:

1. Report Submission stage allows the BSFI to submit reports required under existing regulations. 2. Amendment stage allows the BSFI to amend or revise a successfully validated

report. 3. Assessment stage allows the BSFI to receive and reply to correspondence and communications from the BSP.

### B. The reference component is composed of the following sections:

1. Report List section allows the BSFI to view and download new or enhanced reporting templates and relevant BSP issuances.

2. History section allows the BSFI to view and download previously submitted reports and its corresponding validation result.

## Page 6

. BSP Financial Institution Portal

1.2 Minimum Requirements

### PC Specifications:

e 1 gigahertz (GHz) or faster 32-bit (x86) or 64-bit (x64) processor*

e 1gigabyte (GB) RAM (32-bit) or 2 GB RAM (64-bit)

e 16GB available hard disk space (32-bit) or 20 GB (64-bit)

e DirectX 9 graphics device with WDDM 1.0 or higher driver. *Source:https://support.microsoft.com/en-ph/help/10737/windows-7-system-requirements

### Software Requirements:

e Adobe Reader

e Chrome 51/Win7, Firefox 31.3.0 ESR/Win7, Firefox 46/Win 7, Internet Explorer 11/Win 7, Edge 13/Win 10

e Microsoft Office 2007

## Page 7

BSP Financial Institution Portal

### 2. PORTAL NAVIGATION

2.1 Getting Started

a. Opena web browser and type https://fiportal.bsp.gov.ph* on the address bar.

I @® & bttps://fiportal.bsp.gov.ph ee *I

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Welcome

Welcome to the Financial Institution (Fl) Portal of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), the online report submission facility for regulstory and statistical reports. The Fl Portal offers s convenient alternative for reporting your data. You can now submit your reports to the BSP through the internet.

Upon submission of report, you will receive confirmation thst your data have been received by the BSP. Also, your dats will be validated, and you will receive notification on the results of the data validation.

Before using this facility, please be sure that you have read and fully understood the Fl Portal Operating Guidelines.

Please note that s login is required for all reports submission.

*If inaccessible, please go to the url: https://fiportal2.bsp.gov.ph

b. Create and save a new password.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List

History

New Password

i) Please set a new password.

New Password Password Enter Again

Save

## Page 8

BSP Financial Institution Portal

c. Select and/or create a Password Reminder Question* and answer known only by the user.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

DANFAN TAN TAN TANT AN TANT ANT AN TANT ANT ANTAN TAN TANIA) NV) j PANINI TANT AVI NI AANYS NV) IVAN, ais AO’ TOs LOS COS ZS COS COS OS aS CS CAN OS AS CAS OS aS CS OS OS OS OS OS aS ES CS OS CS OS OS OS OS I

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Password Reminder

I i) Please choose a reminder query.

Password Reminder

Question What is your father's middle name? Ix]

Answer

te =

*User may customize the question

d. Enter the generated security code from Entrust app* to the Portal and click Authenticate.

I OA https://fiportal.bsp.gov.ph/security?p_p_id=twofactorlogin_WAR_SecurityPortlet&p_p_lifecycle=08&p_p_state=me aa w

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANGIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Security Two-Factor Login

@ Return to Full Page

Resources Download Two-Factor Login Tatas Resibation Enter your response for the

token with serial number ### 80535-51985:

Tis

* Please refer to User Guide for 2FA registration

## Page 9

BSP Financial Institution Portal

e. User will then be redirected to the Welcome page of the FI Portal.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### FINANGIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Welcome to the BSP Financial Institution Portal (Fl Portal) The BSP FI Portal is an online, secured, web-based facility where BSP Supenised Financial Institutions (BSFls) can submit required reports and receive feedback on its status. It serves as a repository of the reports submitted by the BSFI to the BSP.

The BSP FI Portal also provides a means for the BSP and the BSFI to exchange official communications related to report submissions, such as results of validation, assessment letters, and other notices. It is the single point of reference for official submissions and correspondences coursed through the facility as duly authorized users of both the BSP and the BSFI have access to the same set of records, thereby enhancing transparency in addressing report-related concerns.

### The BSP FI Portal has two major components, as follows: ### A. The reporting process component is composed of the following stages:

1. Report Submission stage - allows the BSFI to submit reports required under

existing regulations PROCESS FLOW

2. Amendment stage - allows the BSFI to amend or revise a successfully validated report

[Report Submission}ap( Amendment Imp{ Assessment I

3. Assessment stage - allows the BSFI to receive and reply to correspondence and communications from the BSP

2.2 Report Submission Module

This module contains a list of reports with its corresponding status.

### The authorized user of the BSFI will be able to: * Determine the details of the reports for submission (i.e., Status, Frequency,

Report Name)

¢ Submit the reports that are due; ¢ View the details of a submitted erroneous report; and * Resubmit a report that contains an error

### HOW TO SUBMIT A REPORT

1. Click the Report Submission tab.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Note: Accessible only by Report Submitter and Power User

### 2. The main page of the Report Submission module will display the following:

a. Search Criteria b. Page Navigation c. DataTable

## Page 10

BSP Financial Institution Portal

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

### Report Name:

### INCLUSIVE PERIOD:

Reset I Search I

07/15/2016 - 07/16/2016 2016-08-05 XYZ-XYZ Report WEEKLY Pending for Submission

07/08/2016 - 07/08/2016 2016-07-28 XYZ-XYZ Report WEEKLY Pending for Submission

05/20/2016 - 05202016 2016-08-10 XYZXVZ Report WEEKLY Late / Pending for Submission ov1a/2016- 05/12/2018 «2016-06-03 XYZ-X¥Z Report WEEKLY Late / Pending for Submission 05/06/2016 - 057082018 «2016-0527 XYZXYZ Report [ce] WEEKLY Late I Pending for Submission 0420/2016 - 04/20/2018 2016-05-20 XYZXVZ Report WEEKLY Late / Pending for Submission 0415/2016 -04/15/2018 2016-05-06 XYZ-XVZ Report WEEKLY Late / Pending for Submission

2016-04-28 XYZ-XYZ Report WEEKLY Late / Pending for Submission

04/01/2016 - 04/01/2016 2016-04-22 XYZ-XYZ Report WEEKLY Late / Pending for Submission

### 3. Use the Search Criteria box to filter according to:

a. Status of the Report

For Submission In Progress Error

=" For Submission — reports that are pending for submission = In progress — reports that are queued for processing =" Error — reports that failed system validation

b. Frequency of Report Submission

### DAILY ### WEEKLY ### SEMI-MONTHLY

### MONTHLY ### QUARTERLY ### SEMESTRAL ### ANNUAL

### AS CHANGES OCCUR ### AS INCIDENT OCCUR

* Daily — eg. FX position, etc.

* Weekly — eg. CDRC, WRRAR, etc. ¢ Semi-Monthly — eg. SCRCA, etc. * Monthly — eg. MICRO (MIS), etc.

## Page 11

BSP Financial Institution Portal

* Quarterly — eg. FRP, Agri-Agra, MSME, etc.

¢« Semestral — eg. Stress Test, etc.

¢ Annual -— eg. SRLG, etc.

¢ As Changes Occur — eg. BIODATA, Registration Form, etc. ¢ As Incident Occur — eg. RCL, etc.

c. Report Name d. Inclusive Period

Sort the data by clicking the preferred header of the Data Table Box.

Locate the specific report to be submitted, check if the details are correct and click Submit button.

07/15/2016 - 07/15/2016 2016-08-05 XYZ-XYZ Report Pending for Submission Submit

Browse, select, and upload the corresponding file to be submitted.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

### REPORT SUBMISSION:

Report Code: XYZ Report Name: XYZ Report Frequency: ‘WEEKLY

System Date: 03/31/2016 Reference Date: 03/04/2016 - 03/04/2016

Due Date: 03/18/2016

Status: Late:Pending for Submission ### Inclusive File(s):

_ FileName = File Types, Browse File xyz csv No file selected.

Submit Cancel I

a. Click Browse to locate the report; and b. Select the file* to be uploaded then click Open

* Take note of the File Name and File Type indicated as this is the correct format that will be accepted by the FI Portal.

## Page 12

7.

8.

9.

BSP Financial Institution Portal

Verify the details of the report and click Submit

Review the Terms and Conditions and click “I Agree” to confirm.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Terms and Conditions

By accessing the Financial Institution (Fl) Portal of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), @ is understood that you have read the BSP Fi Portal Operating Guidelines and you agree and accept the same.

Click the OK button upload the report.

Are you sure you want to upload the report?

Once the report has been uploaded, take note of the change in report status**.

** Change in Report Status: In Progress — ongoing validation process Error — error in file validation

Reports that passed validation will be transferred to the Amendment module.

2.3 Amendment Module

This module contains a list of all successfully validated reports from the Report Submission Module.

### In this module, authorized user of the BSFI will be able to: ¢ View list of successfully validated reports

¢ Submit an amended report of successfully validated reports; and ¢ View and download validation results

## Page 13

BSP Financial Institution Portal

### HOW TO AMEND A SUCCESSFULLY VALIDATED REPORT

1. Click the Amendment tab.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Note: Accessible only by Report Submitter and Power User

### The main page of the Amendment module will display the following:

a. Search Criteria Box b. Page Navigation c. Data Table Box

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

STATUS: All FREQUENCY: All REPORT NAME: All

DATE TYPE: Submitted Date v

INCLUSIVE PERIOD: From: = (07/21/2016

Reset I Search I

08/17/2018 07/21/201 XYZ - XYZ Report WEEKLY Possnae soy Amend I Amendment Possible for

Amend

06/02/2016 - 06/03/2016 06/24/2016 07/21/2016 XYZ - XYZ Report WEEKLY

Total Record Count: 2 Goto:I1 ¥ <<prev (10f1) next>>

### 2. Use the Search Criteria box to filter according to:

a. Status of the Report

### STATUS:

For Amendment

In Progress Amendment Error

=" For Amendment - successfully validated reports that are possible for amendment

10

## Page 14

BSP Financial Institution Portal

= In progress — amended reports that are queued for processing = Amendment Error — amended reports that failed system validation

b. Frequency of Report Submission c. Report Name d. Date Type

DATE TYPE: Submitted Date wv Due Date

Reference Date Submitted Date

e. Inclusive Period

3. Sort the Data Table by clicking a specific header.

### I REFERENCE DATE DUEDATE SUBMITTEDDATE REPORT FREQUENCY STATUS I

4. Locate and choose the report to be revised and click Amend.

05/27/2016 - 05/27/2016 08/17/2016 07/21/2016 XYZ - XYZ Report WEEKLY DSrcceree Amend Amendment

5. Browse, select, and upload the corresponding file to be submitted.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

### SUBMISSION OF AMENDED REPORT:

Report Code: XYZ Report Name: XYZ Report Frequency: WEEKLY System Date: 05/24/2016 Reference Date: 04/01/2016 - 04/01/2016 Due Date: 04/22/2016 Status: Success ### Inclusive File(s):

‘FileName = File Types Browse File wz No file selected.

Cancel }

a. Click Browse to locate the amended report; and b. Select the file* to be uploaded then click Open

11

## Page 15

BSP Financial Institution Portal

* Take note of the File Name and File Type indicated as this is the correct format that will be accepted by the FI Portal.

6. Verify the details of the report and click Submit

7. Review the Terms and Conditions and click “Il Agree” to confirm.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Terms and Conditions

By accessing the Financial Institution (Fl) Portal of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), it is understood that you have read the BSP FI Portal Operating Guidelines and you agree and accept the same.

I Agree

8. Click the OK button upload the report

Are you sure you want to upload the report?

Once the report has been uploaded, take note of the change in report status.

2.4 Assessment Module This module contains the assessment and billing notices from the BSP.

This will allow the authorized user of the BSFI to view the assessment notices from the BSP and send appropriate justifications to the BSP.

### This module contains two subsections: ¢ Inbox — contains all notices which are still under evaluation. * Closed — contains all notices which the BSP has already decided its final

position.

12

## Page 16

BSP Financial Institution Portal

### HOW TO VIEW AND RESPOND TO AN ASSESSMENT NOTICE

1. Click the Assessment tab.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Note: Accessible only by Assessee and Power User

### The main page of the Assessment module will display the following:

a. Search Criteria Box b. Page Navigation c. Data Table Box

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

### CONTROL#:

### REPORT:

TYPE OF DATE SEARCH: Suomitied Date

INCLU SIVE PERIOD: From: 07/21/2016 07/21/2016

### Total Record Count: 2 Goto: 1 ¥ <<prev (10f1) next>:

107210020 Walting for your repty XYZ - XYZ Report OB5/2016 - 05082016 05/242016 07/21/2016 10:56:52 AM 1997210021 ‘\Walting for your repty X¥Z- XYZ Report (05/27/2016 - 05/27/2016 05/17/2016 07/21/2016 10:57:09

Total Record Count: 2 Goto: 1 ¥ <<prev (10f1) next>>

### 2. In the Inbox tab, use the Search Criteria box to filter according to:

a. Control #

b. Report Name

c. Date Type

d. Inclusive Period

3. Sort the Data Table by clicking a specific header.

I como. STATUS REPORT REFERENCE DATE DUEDATE SUBMITED DATE I

13

## Page 17

BSP Financial Institution Portal

4. Choose a Control Number from the Data Table box to view an assessment.

GBB 1507210020 Waiting for your reply XYZ - XYZ Report

1607210021 CMU Processing yourrequest XYZ-XYZ Report

Note: Red envelope indicates unopened notice

5. Verify the details of the assessed report and click the link under the Download Attachment column to view or save the assessment notice from the BSP.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Control Number: 1607210021

Industry: THRIFT BANK

Bank: ABC Bank Inc

Report: XYZ

Reference Date: 05/27/2016 - 08/27/2016 ### Gov Date Approved:

### Debit Date:

Delgado, Kevyn j 07/21/2016 1607210021-D19008-C-01

“Note: You are allowed to send your explanation and or supporting documents 2 time(s) Upload File: I Choose File I No file chosen

### Optional Message: Please limit your input to 100 characters: 100 characters left

* User may opt to type a note/short message in the "Optional Message Box (Limited to 100 characters) ### 6. To upload and send a reply letter to the BSP:

a. Click Browse to locate the reply letter; and b. Select the file to be uploaded then click Open

c. Review the Terms and Conditions and click on “I Agree” to confirm

1007210021 ### THRIFT BANK ABC Bank Inc

08/27/2016 - 08/27/2016

Delgado, Kevyn j 07/21/2016 11:31:03 AM 1607210021-019998-C-01 1607210021-019998-C-01 pdf

Cancel I

Terms and Conditions

By accessing the Financial institution (Fi) Portal of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP). it is understood thet you have resd the BSP Fi Portal Operating Guidelines and you agree and accept the same.

14

## Page 18

BSP Financial Institution Portal

d. Click the OK button to upload the file.

Are you sure you want to upload the file?

Once the file has been uploaded, take note of the change in report status**

** Change in Report Status: From Waiting for your reply to CMU Processing your request

### HOW TO VIEW AN ASSESSMENT NOTICE WITH FINAL POSITION 1. From the Assessment main page, click the Closed tab.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

wa) ### CONTROL#: REPORT: a v

TYPE OF DATE SEARCH: Suomimied Dale Ov

INCLU SIVE PERIOD: From 7212016

Total Record Count: 3 Goto:I1¥ <<prev (10f1) next=> ### — SONTROL STATUS REPORT REECE DATE = DUEDATE = SUBMITTED DATE GBB tso7130005 ose Os17/2016 -OB17/2016 OTH0BI2016 O719/2016 2:48:14 PM

### 1907159008 05/10/2016 - 05/10/2016 0701/2016 07/15/2016 10:57-24 AM ### 1507130001 05/24/2016 - 05/24:2015 07/15/2016 07/19/2016 2:53:44 PM

Total Record Count: 3 Goto: 1 ¥ <<prev (10f1) next>>

### 2. Use the Search Criteria box to filter according to:

a. Control #

b. Report Name c. Date Type

d. Inclusive Period

15

## Page 19

BSP Financial Institution Portal

3. Sort the Data Table by clicking a specific header.

I como. STATUS REPORT REFERENCE DATE DUEDATE SUBMITED DATE I

4. Choose a Control Number from the Data Table box to view a closed assessment.

GB 1607130005 XYZ - XYZ Report

1607150008 Closed XYZ - XYZ Report

1607190001 Chsed XYZ - XYZ Report

Note: Red envelope indicates unopened notice

5. Review the details of the closed assessment and click the links under the Download Attachment column to view or save the notices.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Control Number: 1607190001 Industry: THRIFT BANK Bank: ABC Bank Inc ### Report:

### Reference Date:

### Debit Date:

Delgado, Kevynn j

Tester, juan a

Delgado, Kevynn j 07/20/2016 4:47:46 PM

2.5 Report List Module ### This module serves as a source of BSFI for the following documents:

¢ All the required templates and file structure; and ¢ Regulatory issuances of the BSP pertaining to report submission.

The authorized user of the BSFI can view relevant BSP issuances and download new or enhanced reporting templates.

16

## Page 20

17

BSP Financial Institution Portal

### HOW TO VIEW AND DOWNLOAD REPORTING TEMPLATES AND RELEVANT BSP ### ISSUANCES

1. Click the Report List tab.

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Note: Accessible to all Users

### The main page of the Report List module will display the following:

a. Search Criteria Box b. Page Navigation c. Data Table Box

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Reset Search I

### fotal Record Count: 1 ib I Goto:I1 ¥ <<prev (10f1) next>: KYZ XYZ Report 1c I WEEKLY ‘Ten banking days after the transaction date View Total Record Count: 1 Goto: 1 ¥ <<prev (10f1) next>>

### 2. Use the Search Criteria box to search for a specific report by its:

a. Report Code b. Frequency of Report Submission

3. Sort the Data Table by clicking a specific header.

### I SORE NAME FREQUENCY DEADLINE I

## Page 21

BSP Financial Institution Portal

4. Click View to access the specific reporting template and its related issuances.

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

### XYZ

XYZ Report

### WEEKLY

Ten banking days after the transaction date

2015-12-01 - 2065-12-01

Circulars: [a]

Total Record Count: 1 Goto: 1 Ir] <<prev (10f1) next>>

http:/Awww.bsp.gov.ph/regulations Enhancements to the XYZ Reporting Package in Relation to Circular No. 814 dsted 27 fregulstions.asp7id=3216 September 2013

Total Record Count: 1 <<prev (10f1) next>>

### Report Files:

Total Record Count: 1 <<prev (10f1) next>>

a. Click the link to view the related issuances of the report under Circulars. b. Choose a reporting template and click Download under Report Files.

2.6 History Module

### This module contains all the reports submitted by the FI Portal User using:

* Report Submission Module * Amendment Module

All authorized users of the BSFI can view the details and results of each submission.

18

## Page 22

BSP Financial Institution Portal

### HOW TO VIEW AND DOWNLOAD PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED REPORTS AND ITS ### CORRESPONDING VALIDATION RESULT

1. Click the History tab

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PORTAL

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Note: Accessible to all Users

### The main page of the History module will display the following:

a. Search Criteria Box b. Page Navigation c. Data Table Box

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

### Status:

### Frequency:

### REPORT NAME:

DATE TYPE: Validation Date v

INCLUSIVE PERIOD: From: = 07/21/2016 To: 07/21/2016

Reset I Search I

fotal Record Count: 2 Ib] Goto: 1 ¥ <<prev (10f1) next=

Success view details

06/27/2016 - 05/27/2016 2016-06-17 07/21/2016 10:57:00 07/21/2016 11:17:41 [E] XYZ-XYZ Report > Success

06/02/2016 - 06/03/2016 2016-06-24 07/21/2016 10:56:52 07/21/2016 11:13:02 XYZ-XYZ Report view details

Total Record Count: 2 Goto: 1 ¥ <<prev (1 0f1) next>>

### 2. Use the Search Criteria box to filter according to:

Status of the Report

Frequency of Report Submission Report Name

Date Type

Inclusive Period

pa207

19

## Page 23

BSP Financial Institution Portal

3. Sort the Data Table by clicking a specific header

### _ REFERENCE DATE DUEDATE SUBMITTED DATE VALIDATIONDATE == REPORTNAME = FREQUENCY = STATUS -

4. View the details of a specific submission by clicking the view details

Welcome Report Submission Amendment Assessment Report List History

Adobe Reader is required to view the validation result.

To get Adobe Reader, click the image tb1@e@8@abcbank.com below

XYZ - XYZ Report Reference Date: 05/27/2016

Submitted Date: 07/21/2016 10:57:00 AM ### Report Summary:

Report Submission - SUCCESSFUL

a. Click “Submitted Report” to view or download the submitted report.

b. Click “PDF Result” to view or download the Validation Result of the submitted report

20

## Page 24

Annex B

BSP Financial Institution Portal iS

### TWO-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION (2FA) REGISTRATION

1. On your IOS /Android device, open App Store / Play Store then search and install Entrust IdentityGuard Mobile app.

io

< entrust identityguard mobile

Entrust ects eco Mabile Entru &

S30 MB * 3.3 #1 millions

### 3 I

2. Open Entrust IdentityGuard Mobile and add new identity by clicking Add button.

— Entrust ST

_ Identitie

Click to add an identity > +

Powered By

## Page 25

BSP Financial Institution Portal aS

3. Enter identity provider details Address: fiportal.bsp.gov.ph Name: BSP

= Entrust ST

Identity Provider

Address: fiportal.bsp.gov.ph

Name: BSP

4. On your PC, go to the url: https://fiportal.bsp.gov.ph/ and log in using your password or the password provided by BSP?.

5. Upon log-in, you will be redirected to the Security Tab. Click Generate to get the Serial Number and Activation Code

Two-Factor Registration © Return to Full Pane

» How to register? (Click here)

Activation Code

Registration Code

1 Only applicable to newly registered users

## Page 26

BSP Financial Institution Portal “=a

6. In the Entrust app, enter the generated Serial Number and Activation Code from the portal then click Activate

### ACTIVATE

= Entrust S

Generate 2. nitty

Identity Provider

65109-01850 Address: fiportal.bsp.gov.ph ACU) Name: BSP 1952-1928-0028-0555 Soft Token

Serial Number 65109 - 01850

Activation .

Code: 1952 - 1928 - 0028 - 0555

Register

7. Return to your PC then enter the registration code from the app and click Register. After registration, click OK in the Entrust app.

Entrust ST

SI Generate

Registration Code

04832-46245

65109-01850

1952-1928-0028-0555

Enter the registration code into the Self-Service web page, or provide it to your help-desk to finish 04832-46245 registration.

OK Register

Powered By

## Page 27

BSP Financial Institution Portal aS

8. Enter the generated security code from Entrust app to the portal and click Authenticate to finish the registration on 2FA.

Entrust ST BSP Enter your response for the token with serial number ### 05111-47779:

Security Code

97/20189

Lifetime

9. After authentication, you will be redirected to the Welcome page of the BSP FI Portal.

Reminder: Entrust App is required to be opened to get the security code every time the users login to the portal. 