### # M-2020-093

## Page 1

To

Subject

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2020- 093

ALL BSP SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFlis) WITH ### ELECTRONIC PAYMENT AND FINANCIAL SERVICES (EPFS) LICENSE

Amendment to Memorandum M-2020-080 dated 9 October 2020 on the Electronic Submission of the EPFS Monthly Report Template

Further to Memorandum No. M-2020-080 dated 09 October 2020, all BSFlis

with EPFS license shall observe the following revised process and deadline for the submission of the EPFS monthly report template covering the years 2018, 2019, and

### 2020:

1. The new deadline for the submission of the monthly report template for

the years 2018, 2019, and 2020 shall be on or before 29 January 2021. There shall be a total of fourteen (14) email submissions, as detailed in the succeeding sections.

Only one report each covering the years 2018 and 2019, respectively, shall be submitted using the monthly report template. The submissions for 2018 and 2019 shall be considered as a December submission covering the cumulative transactions for that particular year and shall use the following subject line - EPFS <Name of BSFI>, DD MMMM YYYY (e.g. 31 December 2018 or 2019).

The reports for the years 2018 and 2019 using the monthly report template shall be submitted in separate emails along with the corresponding Control Prooflist and following the file names prescribed under Memorandum M-2020-080.

The monthly reports beginning January 2020 shall cover each particular month, and shall be submitted as one month per email for a total of 12 email submissions all due on or before 29 January 2021.

All other provisions of Memorandum M-2020-080 concerning the submission process and deadline of the EPFS Monthly Reports for reporting periods 31 January 2021 and onwards as well as the EPFS Semi-Annual Report shall remain in effect.

Digitally signed

For compliance. by Chuchi G. * Fonacier Date: 2020.12.16

19:18:33 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

16 December 2020

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines « (632) 8708-7701 « www.bsp.gov.ph « bspmail@bsp.gov.ph 