### # M-2024-023

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024-023

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Subject : Enhancements to the Report on Crimes and Losses Date Entry Template

Pursuant to existing regulations prescribing the submission of Report on Crimes and Losses (RCL), all BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs) submitting RCL to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas - Department of Supervisory Analytics (BSP-DSA) through electronic mail, shall use the revised RCL Data Entry Template (RCL-DET) beginning 05 August 2024.

The enhancement in the said template includes, (i) additional fields and changes in the available dropdowns for cyber-related crimes to align with RCL submission via Advanced Suptech Engine for Risk-based Compliance (ASTERisC*)'; and (ii) expansion of template to 9-digit financial code, i.e., 3-digit bank type and 6-digit branch code, in accordance with the Enhanced Financial Institution Library System (EFILS) of the BSP.

The revised RCL-DET, its corresponding Control Prooflist for the Initial and Final Report, and the User Guide, as reference in accomplishing the RCL-DET can be downloaded from https://www.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting_templates.

Submission of the old version of the RCL-DET shall be rejected by the system and considered non-compliant with the BSP reporting standards beginning 05 August 2024.

All other provisions of BSP Memorandum M-2021-008 dated 19 January 2021 and M-2021-054 dated 12 October 2021, setting the guidelines on the electronic submission of the RCL-DET to BSP-DSA shall remain in effect.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2024.07.17 14:28:33 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

17 July 2024

TASTERisC* - * is a solution that streamlines and automates regulatory supervision, reporting, and compliance assessment of BSFls' cybersecurity risk management systems and processes. Initial implementation covers select BSFls which meet the pre-defined criteria set by the BSP and it includes reports such as the IT Profile Report, Event Driven Report and Notification, RCL and Cybersecurity Control Self-Assessment. 