### # M-2021-030

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-030

wee To : All Concerned Banks

wire. Subject: Extension of Temporary Measures Implemented in the Tete Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas’ (BSP) Rediscounting re Facilities

fee The Monetary Board (MB), in its Resolution No. 517 dated 29 April 2021, bs Ve approved the extension of the temporary measures implemented in the rare BSP'’s rediscounting facilities until 31 July 2021, subject to further extension ### as may be approved by the MB, as follows:

1. Reduction of the term spread on Peso rediscounting loans to zero, thereby equating the Peso rediscount rate to the BSP’s Overnight (O/N) Lending Rate, regardless of maturity (i.e. 1 to 180 days);

ee 2. Reduction of the term spread on rediscounting loans under the tet Exporters’ Dollar and Yen Rediscount Facility (EDYRF), thereby ae reducing the applicable United States Dollar (USD) and Japanese Yen ne me (JPY) rediscount rates to the 90-day London Interbank Offered Rate,’ \ an ve plus 200 basis points, regardless of maturity (i.e. 1 - 360 days); and

anes 3. Acceptance for rediscounting with the BSP under the EDYRF of the

i USD- and JPY-denominated credit instruments related to enterprises allowed to operate during the enhanced community quarantine of Luzon, as provided in the Department of Trade and Industry Memorandum Circular No. 20-08, except for loans to banks and capital markets; Provided, that, these credits are booked under the regular banking unit of the rediscounting bank and are compliant with the requirements on Eligible papers and collaterals under Section 282 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB); Provided, further, that the said USD- and JPY-denominated credits pertain only to those end- user borrowers operating during the enhanced community quarantine.

In this regard, banks are expected to comply with the availment wv. procedures set forth under Memorandum Nos. M-2020-016 dated me s.° + Bl March 2020, M-2020-024 dated 08 April 2020 and M-2020-051 dated Wits. 17 June 2020.

' ree 1 Or in their absence, an applicable benchmark rate, such as the Secured Overnight vee es Financing Rate.

. oe? .? 8 8811-1BSP (1277) Co) bspmail@bsp.gov.ph t) bsp.gov.ph oe A. Mabini St. Malate 1004 Manila, Phitippines .

## Page 2

Relatedly, we inform that the credit instruments, which were granted one-time sixty (60)-day grace period or longer as may be mutually agreed by the parties, pursuant to Section 4(uu) of Republic Act No. 11494, otherwise known as the “Bayanihan to Recover as One Act”, shall not be accepted for rediscounting with the BSP after 30 April 2021.

For strict compliance.

### BENJAMIN E. DIOKNO Governor

05 May 2021

Subject: Extension of Temporary Measures Implemented in the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) Rediscounting Facilities

Page 2 of 2

