### # M-2022-014

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022-014

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFlIs) Subject : Amendment to Memorandum M-2021-034 on the

Guidelines for Obtaining a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) under Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11523, otherwise known as the Financial Institutions Strategic Transfer (FIST) Act

Further to Memorandum No. M-2021-034 dated 04 June 2021, all BSFls shall observe the following guidelines on the submission of ### application for obtaining a Certificate of Eligibility (COE):

1. The prescribed subject format on the submission of the application for obtaining a COE shall include the five-digit reference number which corresponds to the application number of the COE as ### illustrated below:

FIST COE <Reference number> <BSFI Name>, <Reference Period in

DD Month CCYy> ### For Example: For the first application To : FIST@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FIST COE OOOO7 Bank ABC, 31 December 2021

For the second application

To : FIST@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FIST COE 00002 Bank ABC, 31 December 2021

2. The Reference Number is the sequential BSFI assigned number for the submitted application. The BSFI shall use the said Reference Number in inquiring the status of its application.

3. The Reference Period shall always refer to the reference period of the Final Master List.

## Page 2

4. All other provisions of Memorandum No. M-2021-034 not mentioned above shall remain in effect.

For compliance. Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2022.03.09 09:53:34 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

09 March 2022

Page 2 of 2 