### # M-2020-079

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2020-_079

To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFls)

Subject : Extension of Waiver of Fees Related to the Grant of License or Authority to Provide Types A’ and B* Advanced Electronic Payment and Financial Services (EPFS) as Additional Relief for BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls)

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1181 dated 17 September 2020, approved the extension of the grant of relief in the form of waiver of the filing, processing, and licensing/registration fees related to the application of BSFls for Electronic Payment and Financial Services (EPFS) under Memorandum No. M-2020-033 dated 27 April 2020 from 09 September 2020 to 31 March 2021.

For information and guidance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2020.10.01 12:52:02 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

01 October 2020

1 This applies to BSFls that can be assessed against the prudential criteria provided under the Policy and Regulations on Licensing. These applicants must have been examined by the Bangko Sentral

2 This applies to proponents that cannot be assessed against the prudential criteria provided under the Policy and Regulations on Licensing. These include newly-established BSFls and new applicants for an authority to operate as "Electronic Money Issuer-Others".

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines ¢ (632) 87087701 * www.bsp.gov.ph © bspmail@bsp.gov.ph 