### # M-2021-007

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M- 2021 - 007

To : ALL BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS (BSP) SUPERVISED FINANCIAL ### INSTITUTIONS Subject : ONLINE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY (O-CSS)

In line with the thrust of the BSP to provide quality services to its stakeholders and leverage on advances in technology to promote efficiency, feedback on services rendered by the Financial Supervision Sector (FSS) shall be collected using the Online Customer Satisfaction Survey (O-CSS).

The O-CSS aims to gather feedback from BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFls) on the quality of services rendered relative to their engagements, dealings, and transactions with the FSS. All BSFls shall accomplish the O-CSS using the link provided by the FSS supervising department. The guidelines in using the O-CSS are attached as Annex A.

For immediate implementation. Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2021.01.18

20:46:05 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

Attachment: As stated

18 January 2021

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004, Manila, Philippines - (632) 8708-7701 - www.bsp.gov.ph - bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

Annex A

### GUIDELINES ON THE DEPLOYMENT OF ONLINE ### CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY (O-CSS)

Coverage and Purpose

The O-CSS aims to promote efficiency in gathering feedback from Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) customers by leveraging on digital technology. It uses Microsoft Forms and Microsoft Power Automate applications that encourage customers to provide an assessment on the quality of services rendered relative to their engagements, dealings, and transactions with the Financial Supervision Sector (FSS) of the BSP. It covers the following processes of FSS that ### are aligned with its Quality Management System (QMS):

Licensing of New Banks;

Licensing of Pawnshop and Registration of Money Service Business (MSB);

Grant of License or Authority (GLA);

Confirm Election or Appointment of Directors or Officers;

Onsite Examination;

Evaluation of Reply to Report of Examination (ERR);

Evaluation of Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) Document; Execution of Letter of Commitment (LOC); and

Evaluation of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Prompt Corrective Action (PCA).

SM * OAD oD

Results of the feedback shall be used to address customer concerns, assess the degree to which customer needs and expectations are met, and determine appropriate actions and opportunities for improvement in the QMS processes.

### The deployment of O-CSS on each QMS process shall be as follows:

QMS Process Time of Deployment

Licensing of New Banks Simultaneous with the transmittal of letter notifying of

Licensing of Pawnshop and I the approval of the license

Registration of MSB

GLA On an annual basis, within 10 banking days after

Confirm Election or I 30 September, covering all requests completed from

Appointment of Directors or I 1 October of the previous year to 30 September of the

Officers current year

Onsite Examination Start of onsite examination. Simultaneous with the letter of authority.

ERR Simultaneous with the transmittal of the evaluation

Evaluation of ICAAP Document _ I letter

Execution of LOC Simultaneous with the notification letter on the acceptance of the LOC

Evaluation of MOU on PCA Simultaneous with the notification letter on the approval or denial of the MOU

## Page 3

Annex A

Mechanics

1. The BSFI, through its BSP-registered electronic mail, copy furnished its Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), if applicable, shall receive an e-mail from the FSS mailbox (i.e., fss- ocss@bsp.gov.ph) with a link to the O-CSS that contains a request to accomplish the online survey. This shall be accomplished by the President or any authorized bank personnel addressed in the FSS e-mail request.

2. Upon accessing the link to the survey, the respondent shall indicate the details included in the FSS e-mail request.

QMS Process Additional Details? GLA Start and end years of period covered Confirm Election or Appointment of Directors or Officers Onsite Examination a. Examination cut-off date; and b. Examination completion date. ERR Cut-off date of Report of Examination.

3. The respondent shall provide an assessment of the quality of specific services rendered to their engagements, transactions, or dealings with the appropriate BSP supervising/processing department/unit*. The assessment covers the following four key ### quality attributes:

a. Accessibility/Availability (Provided assistance readily);

b. Communication (Discussed the subject of requests/queries clearly and completely and provided easy-to-understand BSP actions, responses, views and rules and regulations); Courtesy (Provided services politely and professionally); and

d. Reliability (Delivered services promptly and accurately).

9

The assessment uses the following rating scale: 5 — Strongly Agree; 4 — Agree; 3 — Indifferent; 2 — Disagree; and 1 — Strongly Disagree. The respondent is required to provide inputs in the Comments or Suggestions portion for rating of “3” or below? to enable the BSP supervising unit to identify its strengths and weaknesses on both the overall quality of BSP services and specific concerns confronting the department. Overall comments and recommendations are placed at the end of the survey.

4. The BSFI shall accomplish the O-CSS not later than five (5) banking days from receipt of the e-mail notification from the FSS mailbox or from date of completion of onsite examination, as applicable. A reminder e-mail* shall be received by the BSFI five (5) banking days thereafter.

1 These details shall be used as transaction reference for monitoring and reporting purposes. 2 Includes offsite supervision and onsite examination.

3 Comments or suggestions are optional for ratings above “3”.

4 Automatically sent to all BSFI e-mails with O-CSS request.

## Page 4

Annex A

Successful submission of the O-CSS form will trigger automatic e-mails: (i) containing the BSFl’s responses to the FSS supervising sub-sector and the e-mail address of the BSFI’s President or officer of equivalent rank, as provided by the BSFI; and (ii) informing the supervising department concerned, through its nominated mailbox, of the O-CSS submission sans the BSFI’s feedback response.

The BSFI, through a separate e-mail to the FSS supervising sub-sector concerned, may submit documents to support the responses in the O-CSS.

The BSFI shall ensure that its official e-mail addresses registered with the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) are updated pursuant to BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-026 dated 11 September 2017; and

The BSFI is not required to submit a proof or evidence of accomplishment of the O-CSS since the responses of the BSFI will be automatically sent via e-mail to the FSS supervising sub-sector. 