### # M-2022-033

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022-033

To : ALL UNIVERSAL/COMMERCIAL BANKS AND THEIR ### THRIFT BANK/NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTION WITH ### QUASI-BANKING FUNCTIONS/TRUST CORPORATION ### SUBSIDIARIES, AND DIGITAL BANKS

Subject : Updated Comprehensive Credit and Equity Exposures (COCREE) Report Package

Pursuant to Circular No. 1131 dated 13 December 2021, and in line with Memorandum Nos. M-2021-070 dated 22 December 2021, M-2022-018 dated 28 March 2022, and M-2022-027 dated 26 May 2022, the following shall be ### observed in the implementation of the COCREE Report:

1) The XML Schema Definition (XSD) and other relevant materials of the COCREE Report have been updated to consider the comments gathered during the pilot test of the XML-COCREE. The updated COCREE Report Package (CRP) containing the latest XSD and the following Annexes enumerated below can be downloaded from the BSP Template Portal (www.bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting templates), or requested from the Credit Reporting System Unit (CRSU) through ### cocree@bsp.gov.ph:

i. Data Dictionary (see Annex A), ii. Line-ltem Instructions (see Annex B), iii. Control Prooflist (see Annex C),

v. Validation User Guide (see Annex D),

v. Frequently Asked Questions (see Annex E), and

vi. Fl Portal COCREE Module User Guide (see Annex F).

2) The updated CRP shall take effect on COCREE’s live implementation beginning with reporting period 30 June 2022 which is due for submission on 16 September 2022 pursuant to the prescribed submission deadlines under Memorandum No. M-2022-027. Records submitted during the pilot phase are primarily for testing purposes only and cannot be considered as live submission.

3) The COCREE Report shall continue to be submitted via the BSP Financial Institution (Fl) Portal’ in accordance with the guidelines and encryption requirements prescribed under Memorandum No. M-2022-018. Quarterly submission of the Report on CREDEX? shall continue as prescribed until otherwise advised by the Bangko Sentral.

1 The FI Portal can be accessed at https://fiportal.bsp.gov.ph. As provided in the FI Portal Manual, compatible web browsers shall be at least Chrome 51/Win7, Firefox 31.3.0 ESR/Win7, Firefox 46/ Win 7, Internet Explorer 11/Win 7, Edge 13/Win 10.

2 Credit and Equity Exposures to Individuals/Companies/Groups Aggregating P1.0 Million and Above

## Page 2

Queries on the submission guidelines and other concerns related to COCREE can be referred to the Credit Reporting System Unit (CRSU) at 5306-2721, 5306-3128 and cocree@bsp.gov.ph.

For compliance.

Digitally signed by DG Chuchi G. Fonacier 05 August 2022

### CHI G. FONACIER eputy Governor

05 August 2022

Page 2 of 2 