### # M-2020-070

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### CORPORATE SERVICES SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M — 2020 - 070 Series of 2020

To : Third Party Payment Service Providers Participating in PhilPaSS and All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions

Subject: e-Submission of Documents to the Payments and Settlements Office (PSO)

Effective immediately, the PSO will allow electronic submissions of documents through the email address: Payments_Unit@bsp.gov.ph. This procedure shall cover requests using the official forms uploaded in the BSP’s website and the required ### documents related to the following:

1. Application for participation to the Philippine Payment and Settlement System (PhilPaSs)

2. PhilPaSS Participant Browser user accounts (i.e., renewal of Smart Card/s, application for new user/s and/ or deletion of user, password reset, etc.)

3. Application for VPN connectivity

4. Requests for manual settlement.

All documents pertaining to the above shall be e-submitted along with the accomplished Summary Statement Form or SSF (Annex 1) with all pages of the documents and the SSF bearing the stamp “Certified True Copy” and all pages signed by the institution’s authorized officer. The SSF shall be printed and scanned in the institution’s letter head.

The PSO shall duly acknowledge receipt of the submission via email; a non- receipt of such acknowledgement shall mean a non-delivery of the e-submission to the ### PSO.

Superseding the previous advisories on the procedures of submitting documents and requests to the PSO, original copies of the documents shall no longer be required to be submitted after the e-submission.

However, the submission of the board resolution on the list of authorized

signatories of the institution is still required to be submitted in original and hard copy,

### addressed to:

Ms. Remedios C. Macapinlac Officer-in-Charge

Payments and Settlements Office Room 101, 5-Storey Building

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

A. Mabini Street, Malate, Manila 1004

## Page 2

For any inquiry and/or concern, the PhilPaSS Help Desk may be reached through ### any of the following means:

Landlines: 8400-7024, 8400-7071, 8400-7073, 8708-7540, 8708-7694

8708-7697 Cellphones: 0915-041-1495, 0961-723-9929, 0961-725-9761, 0961-543-9339 Email: PhilPaSS_Helpdesk@bsp.gov.ph.

Please be guided accordingly.

ee ### MARIA A SARA CYD N. TUANO-AMADOR Deputy Governor

Z!_ September 2020

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

### ANNEX 1

### (PLEASE PRINT IN THE INSTITUTION’S LETTER HEAD)

### SUMMARY STATEMENT FORM

This is to certify that the information in this email and any attached supporting

documents are true and correct and that [Name fe) the Institution:] and its designated officers and employees’

submission of forms and information to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) thru the Payments and Settlements Office (PSO) are in good faith.

Further, we commit to comply with the following requirements of BSP-PSO on the ### electronic submission:

1. All pages of the following documents electronically submitted to the BSP-PSO bear a stamped “Certified True Copy”, signed by the institution’s designated authority ### (please use extra sheet/s if necessary):

a.

zm moO

b. c. d.

2. The institution acknowledges that any misrepresentation shall be subject to legal action and recourses available to the BSP.

3. The institution acknowledges its responsibility in protecting and ensuring that all PhilPaSS Participant Browser (PPB) workstations and connections to the PhilPaSs, including the personnel designated to access these systems, are secured and duly authorized.

### Signature over Printed Name of Authorized Officer: ### Position and Unit/Department: ### Date:

