### # M-2019-013

## Page 1

### TO

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2019- 013

### ALL PAWNSHOPS

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of the Annual Consolidated

Statement of Condition and Consolidated Statement of income and Expenses to BSP-Supervisory Data Center (SDC)

Pursuant to Subsection 4191P.2 of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank

Financial Institutions - Pawnshops (MORNBFI-P), prescribing the submission of the annual Consolidated Statement of Condition (CSOC) and Consolidated Statement of Income and Expenses (CSIE) of pawnshops, the following guidelines shall be observed for the electronic submission of said report beginning with the reporting period ended ### 31 December 2018:

The data entry template (DET) and the corresponding Control Prooflist (CP) can be downloaded from http://www.bsp.gov.ph/ses/reporting_templates by entering the assigned pawnshop code. The pawnshop code consists of the first seven (7) digits of the PS Registration No. in the Certificate of Authority to Operate (COA) ### issued to Pawnshops as illustrated in the example below:

Financial Institution Type PS Registration No. Pawnshop Code 31-07777-0-00000 3107777

The DET together with its corresponding scanned CP in Portable Document Format (PDF) duly certified and signed by the Proprietor/Managing Partner/President or any officer of equivalent rank of pawnshops shall be electronically submitted annually on or before 30 April of the following reference calendar year to sdc-pawnshop@bsp.gov.ph using the following required format ### for the subject:

“CSOC<space>Pawnshop<space><Pawnshop Code>,<space>Reference Period” ### as illustrated in the example below:

To : sdc-pawnshop@bsp.gov.ph I Subject :CSOC Pawnshop <3107777>, 31 December 2018

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines e Trunkline (632) 708-7701 e URL: www.bsp.gov.ph e e-mail: bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

### using the following prescribed file names:

Report Name Prescribed File Name

Pawnshop CSOC Pawnshop Control Prooflist PS-ControlProoflist

3. Each email transmission shall correspond to only one (1) report per pawnshop. Multiple reports in a single email transmission will be automatically rejected, thus considered unsubmitted. Each report transmission shall be accompanied by its corresponding CP as described in item 2. Otherwise, submission shall be considered non-compliant with the BSP reporting standards.

pdf

4. Electronic transmission is strongly encouraged. However, pawnshops that are unable to transmit electronically can submit the DET and its accompanying scanned CP in compact disc (CD) or any portable storage device (e.g. USB flash ### drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed deadline to :

The Officer-In-Charge

Supervisory Data Center (SDC)

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

11" Floor, Multi Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

5. Only electronic submissions originating from officially registered e-mail address/es of the pawnshops shall be recognized and accepted by the SDC. The official e- mail address refers to the same e-mail address/es used by pawnshops in registering/notifying activity/ies with the BSP, pursuant to Item Il of BSP Memoranda Nos. 2017-006 and 2017-007 both dated 22 February 2017. Same registered e-mail address/es shall be used by the SDC in electronically acknowledging the submitted reports and transmitting the corresponding validation/evaluation.

6. All pawnshops that have submitted the CSOC/CSIE for the period 31 December

2018 shall be required to submit the report using the prescribed DET in this Memorandum.

7. This Memorandum supersedes Circular Letter No. CL-2009-079 dated 18 December 2009.

For compliance.

### CH¥CHI G. FONACIER eputy Governor

a april 2019

Page 2 of 2 