### # M-2022-045

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2022-045

To : ALL BSP SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFis)

Subject : Advance Suptech Engine for Risk-based Compliance (ASTERisC*) Rollout

In line with the thrust to digitalize the supervisory and regulatory processes, the Bangko Sentral ng Pililpinas (BSP) is implementing the Advance Suptech Engine for Risk-based Compliance or ASTERisC* effective 01 January 2023. ASTERisC* is a unified Regulatory and Supervisory Technology solution that streamlines and automates regulatory supervision, reporting, and compliance assessment of BSFlis' cybersecurity risk management systems and processes. Initial implementation covers select BSFIs which meet the pre-defined criteria set by the BSP.

This memorandum provides information on the general requirements on the use of ASTERisC* and the preparatory activities prior to rollout. Detailed system guide and other documentation shall be directly coordinated with the participating BSFls and shall also be available in the ASTERisC* platform.

A. General Description and Scope

The ASTERisC* is a cloud-based solution which supports the BSP’s end-to-end process on cybersecurity supervision and oversight to include cyber-profiling, cyber incident reporting and cybersecurity control self-assessments, among others. With this platform, BSFis can directly access and transmit cybersecurity-related reports and information in real-time. The system likewise enables deeper analyses and correlation capabilities to help the BSP implement risk-based and proactive supervisory decisions and set policy direction on cybersecurity.

ASTERisC* will initially be deployed to select BSFls which meet the BSP's predefined criteria. The system scope, features and functionalities may be further expanded in the future to cover additional participating BSFls, other key risk areas and/or modules in line with supervisory priorities and/or requirements.

B. Procedural Overview

Participating BSFls can access the system via a cloud-based web application by providing the necessary credentials. Authorized users can then submit cyber- related reports and assessments through web-based forms and can have access to the following: (1) a dashboard which summarizes the status of submissions and summary reports; (2) global reports predefined by the BSP, which contain charts, summary reports, or raw data; and (3) email notification for report due dates and BSP acknowledgement receipt.

Page 1 of 3

## Page 2

The GSP shall directly coordinate with the participating BSFls for the provision ‘ential: —— I schedule of traini, of the system.

. Minimum Technical Requirements

### The minimum technical requirement for the use of ASTERisC* are as follows:

1.

2.

Internet access;

Latest versions of web browser such as Microsoft Edge, Firefox, and Google Chrome: and

Mobile device for second factor authentication.

. Implementation

1.

### Initial scope of ASTERisC is as follows:

Reps [MOR Reference

ertTitle ae _) Q/145-S/142-P/126-N/125-T of the MORNBFI

and Notification (EDRN) I Q/145-S/142-P/126-N/125-T of the MORNBFI

Losses (RCL) Section 147-Q/145-S/42-P/[126-N/163-T and 172-Q/162-S/161-P/901-N of the MORNBFI

e Cybersecurity Control I Compliance self-assessment against Self-Assessment (CCSA) I Appendix 75 and Q-62 of the MORB and MORNEFI respectively.

At the initial phase of deployment, a single user account is provisioned for each BSFI participant. Requests and justification for additional accounts may be submitted to the Technology Risk and Innovation Supervision

Department (TRISD) at trisd@bsp.gov.ph.

The assigned users are required to undergo the ASTERisC* training to be conducted by TRISD prior to user account creation. The BSFI Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) or any authorized personnel is required to immediately notify the BSP should there be separation/transfer or permanent change of the assigned ASTERisC user.

Reporting through ASTERisC shail be effective starting 1 January 2023. Nonetheless, BSFls may access the system in advance to prepare the IT Profile data for submission on 25 January 2023.

BSFis not yet covered in the initial implementation shall continue to submit

the regulatory reports through the default processes established by the ### BSP.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

For information and guidance.

Digitally signed by . Chuchi G. Fonacier

Date: 2022.10.27

10:31:38 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

27 October 2022

Page 3 of 3 