### # M-2021-008

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-008

To ALL PAWNSHOPS, NON-STOCK SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS (NSSLAs), AND MONEY SERVICE BUSINESSES (MSBs) Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of the Report on Crimes and

Losses (RCL)

Pursuant to existing regulations prescribing the reporting of cyber related

fraud as well as other crime related incidents to the BSP and in line with on-going initiatives of maximizing available information technology infrastructure for regulatory reporting, the following guidelines shall be observed in submitting the RCL effective 01 February 2021.

### A.

1.

2.

Submission Procedures

Reportable incidents falling due for submission to the BSP after 31 January 2021 shall be transmitted electronically using the data entry template (DET) prescribed for the updated RCL. The prescribed DET and its supporting Control Prooflist (CP) for the Initial Report and Final Report, respectively, and the User Guide as relevant reference for accomplishing the DET can be downloaded from http://www. bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_ templates, by entering the assigned BSP Supervised Financial Institution (BSFI) code. The DET may also be requested directly from the BSP-Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) through sdc- rcl@bsp.gov.ph. For MSBs and Pawnshops, the BSFI code is patterned after the first 7-digit number in the Certificate of Registration (COR) for MSBs and/or Certificate of Authority to Operate (AOR) for Pawnshops.

### For example:

Type of Institution COR/COA No. BSFI Code Money Service Business 60-00001-0-00000 6000001 Pawnshop 31-00001-0-00000 3100001

The DET for the RCL (DET-RCL) together with the corresponding scanned CP in Portable Document Format (PDF) signed by the authorized official of the reporting entity shall be electronically transmitted within the existing deadline prescribed for the Initial Report? and Final Report?, as the case may be, to the ### following prescribed e-mail addresses:

1 Not later than ten (10) calendar days from knowledge of crime/incident * Not later than twenty (20) calendar days from termination of investigation

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines « (632) 708-7701 « www.bsp.gov.ph e bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

Type of Institution E-mail Address

Non-Stock Savings and Loan Association I dsanssla-rcl@bsp.gov.ph

Money Service Business dsamsb-rcl@bsp.gov.ph

Pawnshop dsapawnshop-rcl@bsp.gov.ph

3. Only electronic submissions originating from officially registered e-mail address/es of the NSSLAs, MSBs and Pawnshops shall be recognized and accepted by the DSA. The official e-mail address refers to the same e-mail address/es used by MSBs and Pawnshops in registering/notifying activity/ies with the BSP, pursuant to Item II of BSP Memoranda Nos. 2017-014 and 2017-015 both dated 31 March 2017. While for NSSLAs, this is in line with BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017. The same registered e-mail address/es shall be used by the DSA in electronically acknowledging the submitted report and transmitting the corresponding validation results.

4. NSSLAs, MSBs, and PAWNSHOPs shall apply the prescribed format for the ### Subject, as follows:

<report name>space<ENTITY NAME>space<control no.>space<report status>

For Example (NSSLA)

To : dsanssla-rcl@bsp.gov.ph Subject: RCL ABC SLAI 102020-0001 INITIAL

For Example (MSB)

To : dsamsb-rcl@bsp.gov.ph Subject: RCL DEF MONEY CHANGER 102020-0001 INITIAL

For Example (PAWNSHOP)

To : dsapawnshop-rcl@bsp.gov.ph Subject: RCL GHI PAWNSHOP 102020-0001 INITIAL

### 5. The following prescribed file names and file format shall be used:

<reference no. >?_<report status>.<file extension/format >

3 RCL Reference No. is composed of two (2) fields: First (template provided field): Report Name and BSFI Code; Second (input field): Control No. - only numeric values shall be accepted, i.e., the month and year when the initial report is submitted (mmyyyy) and the four (4) digit assigned by the BSFI, which, shall be in a continuing series until the end of the year. (i.e., RCL-BSFl Code-mmyyyy-0001)

Page 2 of 4

## Page 3

File

File File Name extension/Form at Data Entry RCL_BSFIlCode_ReferenceNumber_Report xls Template Status

RCL_BSFIlCode_ReferenceNumber_Report

Control Prooflist pdf Status For Example (NSSLA) File File Name File Format Data Entry Template I RCL_510001_102020-0001_INITIAL xls Control Prooflist RCL_510001_102020-0001_INITIAL pdf For Example (MSB) File File Name File Format Data Entry Template I RCL_6000001_102020-0001_ INITIAL xls Control Prooflist RCL_6000001_102020-0001_INITIAL pdf For Example (PAWNSHOP) File File Name File Format Data Entry Template I RCL_3100001_102020-0001_ INITIAL xls Control Prooflist RCL_3100001_102020-0001_INITIAL pdf

6. NSSLAs, MSBs, and Pawnshops that are unable to transmit via email due to any fortuitous event may submit the DET and its corresponding scanned CP using any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal ### services within the prescribed deadline to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

11th Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

B. Important Reminders

### 1. The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission:

a.

>oaos>s

Failure to use the correct/updated templates Failure to use an officially registered email address Transmitting to the wrong email address

Failure to use the prescribed subject line

Failure to use the prescribed file names

Failure to follow the correct file format

Page 3 of 4

## Page 4

2. Only one (1) DET and its corresponding signed and scanned CP shall be submitted for each applicable reporting period within the prescribed deadline. Submissions containing more than one (1) DET and one (1) CP shall automatically be rejected by the system.

For compliance. Digitally signed by Chuchi G.

* Fonacier Date: 2021.01.19 19:38:18 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

19 January 2021

Page 4 of 4 