### # M-2023-008

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2023-008

To : ALL PAWNSHOPS AND MONEY SERVICE BUSINESSES (MSBs) Subject : Collection of the Annual Supervision Fees (ASF) for the Year 2023

Pursuant to the authority of the Monetary Board to collect annual supervision fees from Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)-supervised financial institutions (BSFIs), including Pawnshops and MSBs, under Section 28 of Republic Act (R.A.) No. 7653 (The New Central Bank Act), as amended by R.A. No. 11211', the following guidelines shall govern the computation and collection by the BSP and the payment by Pawnshops and MSB:? of the 2023 ASF.

1. Computation of ASF for 2023 a. Pawnshops

The ASF is computed based on the number of Pawnshop offices as at the end of December of the immediately preceding year multiplied by five hundred pesos (P500.00) in accordance with Section 702-P of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions (MORNBFI)-P Regulations.

b. MSBs The ASF is computed based on the MSB type in accordance with the regulation on payment of annual service fee under Section 901-N of the MORNBFI-N Regulations. The MSB type as at the end of December of the immediately preceding year shall be used as basis for purposes of determining the amount of ASF.

Pawnshops with MSB registration shall pay the ASF applicable for both pawnshop and MSB.

Sample illustrative computations are provided in Annex A. 2. Notification of Amount Due for 2023 and Mode of Payment

The BSP’s Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) shall send billing notices to all Pawnshops and MSBs for their ASF, indicating, among

1 Supervised institutions shall pay to Bangko Sentral no later than May 31 of each year, an annual supervision fee as may be prescribed by the Monetary Board (MB).

2 Collection of ASF of electronic money (e-money) issuers (EMIs) and virtual asset service providers (VASPs) is covered separately.

Page 1 of 3

## Page 2

Classification: GENERAL

others, the computation of the ASF due, the period covered by the ASF and the due date for the payment thereof.

Payment shall be made through any payment channels available in BSP’s New Order of Payment System (NOPS). The Order of Payment Number (OPN) relative to this transaction can also be generated through the NOPS. The NOPS can be accessed through https://nops.bsp.gov.ph/nops/.

To generate the OPN through the NOPS, select the transaction type, “CASGTB/NB-Annual Supervisory Fees - Pawnshop” for Pawnshops, and “CASGTB/NB-Annual Supervisory Fees - Money Service Business” for MSBs, and complete the other required details. Please use the prescribed format for the 11-digit Account Number, i.e., first four (4) digits pertain to the current assessment year which is 2023 and the remaining seven (7) digits pertain to the unique BSFI code of the Pawnshop or MSB which is the first seven (7) digits of the Pawnshop Registration No. stated in the BSP-issued Certificate of Authority or of the MSB Registration No. stated in the BSP-issued Certificate of Registration, whichever is applicable.

### For Example:

UniqueBSFicode I

2023 1234567 20231234567

Exceptions Noted on Billing Notice of 2023 ASF

Upon receipt of the BSP Notice of ASF billing, the Pawnshop or MSB is encouraged to check the accuracy of the billing. In case concerns or exceptions are noted by the Pawnshop or MSB, such concerns or exceptions shall be submitted to the BSP not later than five (5) working days from receipt of the billing notice, otherwise the BSFI is deemed to have concurred with the billing notice.

Concerns or exceptions, if any, together with supporting documents, shall be e-mailed to fsd9@bsp.gov.ph using the following prescribed subject format - ASF 2023-Noted Exceptions<space><BSFI Name>.

### For Example:

To : fsd9@bsp.gov.ph Subject : ASF 2023-Noted Exceptions <BSFI Name>

Concerns or exceptions not duly substantiated with supporting documents shall not be considered in evaluation of the BSP. The Pawnshop or MSB concerned shall be advised of the action taken on the concerns or exceptions raised.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

This Memorandum shall take effect immediately.

For strict compliance.

Digitally signed by h. fos. fa Arifa A. Ala Date: 2023.03.20 19:53:53 +08'00'

### ATTY. ARIFA A. ALA Sector-in-Charge

20 March 2023

Page 3 of 3

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 4

Scenarios for computation of 2023 ASF

A. Pawnshops:P500 per Pawnshop Office

Annex A

Total no. of Pawnshop offices as of 31 December 2022 100 ASF rate P500 ASF for 2023 P 50,000.00 ### B. MSB MSB Annual Service Fee Type ### A P:100,000 ### B P 20,000 Cc P. 300,000 and/or as determined by Monetary Board ### D P:100,000 ### E P:100,000 ### F P 20,000

Note: ASF rate will be based on the type of MSB as of 31 December 2022

C. Pawnshops with (Type A, Dand E) MSB registration: ASF for Pawnshop plus ASF

for MSB

Total no. of Pawnshop offices as of 31 December 2022 Pawnshop ASF rate

Type A/D/E MSB ASF rate

ASF for 2023

100 ### R500 PR 50,000.00 100,000.00 ### P. 150,000.00

D. Pawnshops with (Type B and F) MSB registration: ASF for Pawnshop plus ASF

for MSB

Total no. of Pawnshop offices as of 31 December 2022 Pawnshop ASF rate

Type B/F MSB ASF rate

ASF for 2023

100 ### R500 PR 50,000.00 20,000.00 ### P.'70,000.00

3 Type “C” registered MSBs pertain to EMls, the ASF collection of which is not covered in this

Memorandum.

Classification: GENERAL 