### # M-2024-040

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I PAYMENTS AND CURRENCY MANAGEMENT SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2024-__040

To : All Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas-Supervised Institutions

Subject : Revised Survey on Pricing of Digital Payments

In relation to the Bangko Sentral Memorandum No. M-2024-015, dated 24 May 2024, which outlines the Guidelines on Pricing of Electronic Payments and requests Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas-Supervised Institutions (BSIs) to participate in the annual Survey on Pricing Digital Payments (SPDP) regarding their provision of digital payment services, the Bangko Sentral acknowledges the BSIs’ participation in the initial run of the SPDP for the year 2023.

In the succeeding runs of the SPDP, starting 01 January 2025, all BSls are encouraged to submit their responses to the SPDP by end-May of each year, with data and information covering the preceding calendar year. The link to the SPDP ### can be accessed by scanning the QR code below:

SPDP MS Forms QR Code

BSIs providing responses through this survey link shall no longer submit the completed SPDP in Microsoft Word format as a PDF, as outlined in Memorandum No. 2024-015. The introduction of an online SPDP questionnaire aims to facilitate more efficient data collection and easier consolidation of responses, allowing for a faster release of the report to the participating BSls.

In addition to streamlining the survey questions, the updated SPDP questionnaire introduces new questions regarding non-bank respondents’ total asset values and whether BSls incur cost items exclusively for off-us payment transactions. It also includes an updated set of options for describing the BSI’s cost accounting, reporting, and monitoring processes. The detailed instructions for completing the SPDP using the link above are outlined in the attached Annex A.

fi

### MAMERTO E. TJANGONAN Deputy Governor

For guidance and appropriate action. 2 (eo)

15 December 2024

‘For those not opting to submit their responses through the new survey link, the updated SPDP questionnaire in the Microsoft Word template, which was initially introduced under Memorandum No. M-2024-015, is attached as Annex B..

a S8ll-IBSP (1277 fe] dspmail@bsp.gov.ph (w] bsp.gov. ph fa] A. Mabini St. Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines Classification: GENERAL

## Page 2

MAB - Annex A

### DETAILED INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE ONLINE SURVEY ON PRICING OF ### DIGITAL PAYMENTS

This Annex provides guidance for Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas-supervised institutions (BSIs) to complete the online Survey on Pricing of Digital Payments (SPDP).

### A.

1.

General Guidelines

Before completing the survey questionnaire through the link provided in the Memorandum, BSis shall ensure that data and information described in this Annex had been completely and appropriately gathered from the BSis’ internal documentations and reports.

Ensure all required fields are completed [fields marked with an asterisk (*)].

Review your responses, especially numerical values and cost categorizations, to ensure accuracy.

Numeric values shall not be abbreviated (e.g., 5000 not 5 thousand). Decimals shall also be inputted and not rounded to the nearest integer. All numeric values shall be in their Philippine Peso (PHP) equivalent.

All information provided in this survey will be treated as confidential in accordance with the provisions of Republic Act No. 10173, or the Data Privacy Act of 2012. We will aggregate and anonymize the information, ensuring that specific details or comments are not attributed to specific entities.

Specific Guidelines

Organization Profile

a. Organization Information. Enter your organization’s full name as registered with the Bangko Sentral.

b. Contact Person. Provide the name and official email address of the designated contact person. This individual will receive survey results and_ related communications from the Bangko Sentral.

c. Type of Institution. Select whether your organization is a bank (e.g., Universal, Commercial, Thrift, etc.) or a non-bank financial institution (e.g., Electronic Money Issuer, Operator of Payment Systems).

d. Total Assets: Non-bank respondents shall enter their total asset value as of December 3] of the previous year, using complete numeric values, including decimals (e.g., 5000000.75). Avoid using abbreviations like “S million.” Please note that this question is a new addition to the survey.

Cost Accounting, Reporting, and Monitoring Processes

a. Choose the option that best describes your institution’s cost accounting, reporting, and monitoring processes (ranging from Fully Manual to Advanced). Please note that this refinement to the survey question is an update to the SPDP.

b. Those whose processes are not accurately described by the above options shall provide a brief description of their institution's cost accounting, reporting, and monitoring processes for digital payment services.

Cost Elements of Payments. As applicable, this portion shall be accomplished for each of the pre-identified payment service—checks, cards, and electronic fund transfers via InstaPay and PESONet.

a. For each identified payment service please determine the following in relation to cost categories described in Annex C (e.g., Authorization, Settlement, Customer ### Support, etc.) and any other additional cost categories identified by the BSI:

i. I Whether costs are directly attributable to the provision of the payment service;

Page 1 of 2

## Page 3

MAB - Annex A

ii. I Whether costs are fixed or variable. For mixed costs, the BSI shall tag the relevant cost categories as both fixed and variable; and

iii. I Whether costs are incurred for off-us payment transactions only. This is a new addition to the survey questionnaire.

### b. Provide the following data on these cost categories for each payment service: i. Annual Costs: Enter the total annual cost for each cost category. ii. Per-Transaction Costs: Enter the cost per transaction for each category. iii. Costs Passed on to Customers: Specify the portion of costs, on a per-transaction basis, that is passed on to customers. -

Other Digital Payment Services

a. If your institution offers digital payment services beyond checks, cards (i.e., debit cards and credit cards), InstaPay, and PESONet, select “Yes” and specify these services.

b. Please determine whether costs are direct or indirect; fixed, variable or both; and if incurred for off-us payment transactions only.

c. Report the total annual costs, costs incurred per transaction, and costs charged per transaction.

d. BSls can provide their responses for up to three additional digital payment services.

e. Ifthe BSI offers more than three additional digital payment services, it may provide the above information on the remaining services via an email addressed to PPDD@bsp.gov.ph, with the subject line “SPDP <reference calendar year> - Additional Information.”

Description of Other Costs Incurred. Provide definitions and descriptions of any other cost categories not identified in Annex C but relevant to your institution’s provision of digital payment services.

Non-Cost Considerations for Pricing

a. List non-cost factors (e.g., competitor pricing, peer pricing, industry standards, regulations, etc.) that affect your institution's pricing decisions.

b. Explain how these non-cost factors influence your pricing strategies.

On-Us Fees for Payment Services

a. Indicate whether your institution charges fees for on-us payment services (services where both the sender and receiver hold accounts within the same institution).

b. Specify which on-us payment services have fees, if applicable.

Comments and Additional Information. Use this section to provide any relevant

information or feedback that may assist the Bangko Sentral in analyzing the survey data more effectively.

Page 2 of 2

## Page 4

MAB - Annex B ### INSTRUCTIONS FOR MANUAL SUBMISSION OF THE SURVEY ON PRICING OF DIGITAL ### PAYMENTS (SPDP)

BSP-supervised institutions have the option to submit their responses to the SPDP ### manually, subject to the instructions below:

### 1. The completed template shall be in pdf format with the filename: “SPDP_<Year>_<BSI Name>’

2. After accomplishing the questionnaire, the report shall be electronically transmitted ### using the following prescribed format as subject:

“SPDP<space><Name of BSI>,<space><Reference Period>’, as illustrated below

To : ppdd-paymentsdata@bsp.gov.ph Subject : SPDP <Name of BSI>, DD MMMM YYVY (e.g., 31 December 2024)

3. Only electronic submissions originating from officially registered email address/es of the BSls shall be recognized and accepted by the PPDD. The acknowledgment receipt for the submitted survey questionnaire and its corresponding validation results, upon availability, will be sent to the same registered email address/es.

4. Hard copy submission shall not be accepted. Covered BSIs that are unable to transmit via email may submit the duly accomplished SPDP using any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal services within the prescribed ### deadline addressed to:

The Director

Payments Policy and Development Department Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

Ground Floor, Economic Financial Learning Office BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate

1004 Manila

All information provided in this survey will be treated as confidential in accordance with the provisions of Republic Act No. 10173, or the Data Privacy Act of 2012. We will aggregate and anonymize the information, ensuring that specific details or comments are not attributed to specific entities.

Page 1 of 10

## Page 5

MAB - Annex B

Survey on Pricing of Digital Payments

Manual Survey Questionnaire for BSP-Supervised Institutions (BSIs)

A. BSI Information

### 1. Please tell us about your organization:

IOrganizationName [oO ContactPerson/s I E-mailAddressfes I

2. Which of the following best describes your organization? Please check.

Bank

Operator of payment system Electronic Money Issuer Other (please specify)

2.a. If NON-BANK, provide the amount of total assets (in PHP) as of end of ### the immediately preceding calendar year:

3. Which of the following payment services does your organization provide? (Check all that apply)

Checks

Debit card

Credit card

Electronic payments - PESONet Electronic payments - InstaPay Others (specify)

Page 2 of 10

## Page 6

MAB - Annex B

B. Cost Elements of Payments

1. Which of the following best describes the cost accounting, reporting, monitoring and analysis processes in your organization?

fe)

fe)

Fully Manual (Paper-Based). All processes are completed using physical documents and manual calculations. Minimal use of software or automated tools.

Primarily Manual with Limited Digital Assistance. Processes rely heavily on manual inputs with some support from basic digital tools (e.g., spreadsheets for calculations and record-keeping).

Hybrid Approach (Manual and Digital). A mix of manual processes and digital tools is used, with digital tools helping with certain repetitive tasks, but with substantial manual intervention still required.

Partially Automated (Integrated Software for Select Tasks). Some processes, such as data collection and reporting, are partially automated using integrated software solutions, though manual adjustments are still frequently necessary. Mostly Automated with Occasional Manual Adjustments. Most processes are automated, with digital tools managing data collection, calculations, and reporting, but still require occasional manual oversight or adjustments. End-to-End Automated (Fully Integrated System). All processes are automated, utilizing an end-to-end integrated system for data collection, processing, reporting, and analysis with minimal or no manual intervention. Advanced Automated System with Predictive Analytics. A fully automated system that not only handles end-to-end processes but also integrates predictive analytics or Al to support forward-looking analysis and decision- making.

Custom or Specialized Automation. Processes are highly customized to the organization’s needs, using a specialized or proprietary automated solution designed specifically for cost accounting, reporting, and analysis.

### Others (please specify below):

/f you selected Fully Manual, please answer questions 7 to 9 only. If you selected any option other than Fully Manual, answer questions 2 to 9.

2. What is the annual cost (in PHP) that your company/institution incurs from providing payment services?

Payment instrument Total Cost in PHP

Check

Debit card

Credit card

Electronic payments - PESONet

Others (specify

Electronicpayments-InstaPay I

Total

3. Accomplish the questions below (sub-items i and ii) for EACH payment instrument/service offered by the BSI.

3-a: PESONet Electronic Fund Transfer Service

Page 3 of 10

## Page 7

MAB - Annex B

: licabili ibuti I Variabili

For the following cost elements, please indicate if each cost is applicable to the BSI, whether the same direct or indirect, and if the cost is considered as fixed, ### variable or mixed:

Variability (Fixed/Variable /Mixed)

Attribution of Cost Element (Direct/Indirect)

Applicable" 10 Cost Category Cost Element (Yes/No)

Payment Authorization cost

handling cost Return cost due to insufficient balance

Cancelation cost

Payment- Payment-specific IT cost

specific Clearing cost infrastructure

and Settlement cost maintenance

cost

Security cost Fraud prevention cost supporting advertising cost activities Customer I Customer support cost I cost Ce

Other cost) [add rows as necessary items

For the following cost elements, please fill in the relevant data on annual cost incurred and average cost per transaction, and information on whether the cost ### is being charged to end-users:

Incurred for servicing off-us payments ### ONLY?" —

Average Cost Annual Cost in Cost per

Charged to End-Users? (Yes/No)

12 Category Sa PHP Transaction

in PHP

Payment I Authorization cost I cost tos insufficient balance

I Cancelation cost cost

specific cost infrastructure IClearingcost cost and

maintenance

a cost cost

Security cost I Fraud I Fraud prevention cost I cost

### A I advertising cost Customer support cost fs

10 Definitions are found in Annex C.

" Costs are deemed Applicable if the BSI separately monitors, measures, and/or account for these costs. Definitions are found in Annex C.

3 Payment transactions where the payer and the payee use accounts held at different financial institutions

Costs for supporting activities

Other cost

Page 4 of 10

## Page 8

MAB - Annex B

3-b: InstaPay Electronic Fund Transfer Service

, licabili ibuti I Variabili

For the following cost elements, please indicate if each cost is applicable to the BSI, whether the same direct or indirect, and if the cost is considered as fixed, ### variable or mixed:

Variability (Fixed/Variable /Mixed)

Attribution of

Applicable® (Yes/No)

Cost Element (Direct/Indirect)

Return cost due to insufficient balance

Payment-specific IT cost Clearing cost

Settlement cost

Cost Category Cost Element"*

Payment handling cost

Payment- specific infrastructure and maintenance cost

Costs for Marketing and advertising cost

supporting

activities Customer support cost Other costI [add rows as necessary items

For the following cost elements, please fill in the relevant data on annual cost incurred and average cost per transaction, and information on whether the cost ### is being charged to end-users:

Incurred for

Average Caine th servicing Cost Ne Annual Costin Cost per g off-us Cost Element a End-Users? Category PHP Transaction (Yes/No) payments in PHP ONLY?"” (Yes/No)

Payment

Authorization cost Return cost due to insufficient balance

handling cost

Payment-specific I I I cost

Payment- specific and

" Settlement cost maintenance

cost Security cost

Fraud prevention cost

% Definitions are found in Annex C.

8 Costs are deemed Applicable if the BSI separately monitors, measures, and/or account for these costs.

'€ Definitions are found in Annex C.

” Payment transactions where the payer and the payee use accounts held at different financial institutions

Page 5 of 10

## Page 9

MAB - Annex B

Costs for Marketing supporting advertising cost

activities Customer support cost Other cost} [add rows as necessary. items

3-c: Check Payment Services

i. Applicabili ibuti I Variabili

For the following cost elements, please indicate if each cost is applicable to the BSI, whether the same direct or indirect, and if the cost is considered as fixed, ### variable or mixed:

Variability (Fixed/Variable

Attribution of Cost Element (Direct/Indirect)

Applicable”

18 Cost Category Cost Element (Yes/No)

Authorization cost

Return cost due to insufficient balance

Cancelation cost Payment-specific IT cost} Clearing cost

Settlement cost

/Mixed)

Payment handling cost

Payment- specific infrastructure and maintenance cost

Security cost Fraud prevention cost Costs for Marketing ad supporting advertising cost

Other items

For the following cost elements, please fill in the relevant data on annual cost incurred and average cost per transaction, and information on whether the cost ### is being charged to end-users:

Incurred for

Average servicing

. Charged to Cost Element2° Annual Cost in Cost per End-Users? off-us PHP Transaction (Yes/No) payments in PHP ONLY??! (Yes/No)

Payment Authorization cost handling Return cost due to cost insufficient balance

Cancelation cost

Payment- Payment-specific I specific cost infrastructure

Clearing cost

'® Definitions are found in Annex C.

'? Costs are deemed Applicable if the BSI separately monitors, measures, and/or account for these costs.

2° Definitions are found in Annex C.

21 Payment transactions where the payer and the payee use accounts held at different financial institutions

Page 6 of 10

## Page 10

MAB - Annex B

and Settlement cost

maintenance cost Security cost I Fraud prevention cost

Marketing SS g cost

3-d: Card Payment Services

i Applicabili ibuti I Variabili

For the following cost elements, please indicate if each cost is applicable to the BSI, whether the same direct or indirect, and if the cost is considered as fixed, ### variable or mixed:

Costs for supporting activities

Other te t items

Variability (Fixed/Variable /Mixed)

Attribution of Cost Element (Direct/Indirect)

Applicable? 22

Cost Category Cost Element (Yes/No) Payment Authorization cost

handling cost

Return cost due insufficient balance Cancelation cost

Payment- Payment-specific specific cost infrastructure I Clearing cost and maintenance cost

Security cost Fraud prevention cost

Costs for Marketing supporting advertising cost

activities Customer support cost

Other cost} [add rows as necessary. items

Settlement cost

For the following cost elements, please fill in the relevant data on annual cost incurred and average cost per transaction, and information on whether the cost ### is being charged to end-users:

Incurred for servicing off-us payments ### ONLY??5 (Yes/No)

Average Annual Cost in Cost per PHP Transaction in PHP

Charged to End-Users? (Yes/No)

Cost Element?*

handling Return cost due to cost insufficient balance

22 Definitions are found in Annex C.

23 Costs are deemed Applicable if the BSI separately monitors, measures, and/or account for these costs.

24 Definitions are found in Annex C.

25 Payment transactions where the payer and the payee use accounts held at different financial institutions

Page 7 of 10

## Page 11

MAB - Annex B

Cancelation cost

Payment- Payment-specific specific cost infrastructure

and

maintenance cost Security cost

Costs for Marketing supporting advertising cost activities Customer support cost

Other cost items

3-e: Other Payment Services (Please prepare separate set of tables for EACH type of payment service)

### Payment Service:

, licabili ibuti I Variabili

For the following cost elements, please indicate if each cost is applicable to the BSI, whether the same direct or indirect, and if the cost is considered as fixed, ### variable or mixed:

Variability (Fixed/Variable /Mixed)

Attribution of Cost Element (Direct/Indirect)

handling cost Return cost due insufficient balance

I Cancelationcost cost

Payment- Payment- 7 specific cost _

and Settlement cost maintenance

cost

Costs for Marketing and supporting advertising cost

Applicable?’

26 Cost Category Cost Element (Yes/No)

Other cost [add rows as necessary. items

For the following cost elements, please fill in the relevant data on annual cost incurred and average cost per transaction, and information on whether the cost ### is being charged to end-users:

26 Definitions are found in Annex C. 27 Costs are deemed Applicable if the BSI separately monitors, measures, and/or account for these costs.

Page 8 of 10

## Page 12

MAB - Annex B

Incurred for servicing off-us payments ### ONLY??? (Yes/No)

Average

Charged to End-Users? (Yes/No)

Annual Cost in Cost per PHP Transaction

Cost Element?®

Payment

Authorization cost Return cost due to insufficient balance

handling cost

Cancelation cost fs cost

Payment-

specific infrastructure) Clearing cost and

; Settlement cost maintenance

cost Security cost

supporting advertising cost

activities

Customer support cost [add rows as necessary.

### 4. Please provide herein, definitions of other cost items identified above, if any:

Other cost items

5. Please provide herein other non-cost considerations for pricing (these may include ### pricing of competitors, peers, and/or industry, etc. ):

Please provide details on how these specifically affect pricing of payment services.

6. Does the BSI charge on-us®” fees for payment services? Yes No

### If yes, please check which services:

Check

Debit card

Credit card

Electronic payments - PESONet

28 Definitions are found in Annex C.

29 Payment transactions where the payer and the payee use accounts held at different financial institutions

3° An on-us payment transaction is a payment transaction where both the payer and the payee hold accounts at the same financial institution.

Page 9 of 10

## Page 13

MAB - Annex B

Electronic payments - InstaPay Others (specify)

7. Please provide any other comments that you think would be relevant for this survey.

Page 10 of 10

## Page 14

MAB - Annex C

Definition of Cost Categories

[cost sd Definition A. Payment handling I Refer to the costs accrued when an end-user initiates a costs payment until that payment is settled.

> Authorization Refer to the costs of processing the payment authorization costs request for certain payment instruments (e.g., fund transfers, e-money) by verifying whether a_ specific transaction can be executed (eg., right credentials, sufficient account balance), including costs related to maintaining databases with authorization-related data. Refer to the costs of returning a payment after authorization that could not be settled due to insufficient funds (e.g., if the authorization process does not involve blocking of the respective amount).

Refer to the costs involved in canceling a fund transfer transaction before a transaction is settled, as well as processing costs associated with disputed electronic payments that have been settled. Refer to the costs for the depreciation and maintenance of equipment and for the performance of processes, whose sole purpose is to make payment-related services available.

Refer to the costs for payments-related software developments, interfaces for internet banking, interfaces with automated teller machines (ATM)/point-of-sale (POS) networks and other centralized infrastructures, etc. This cost element excludes ATM maintenance costs and POS terminal management costs. > Clearing costs Refer to the costs associated with the process of transmitting, reconciling, confirming payment orders prior to settlement, including the netting of instructions and the establishment of final positions for settlement. Refer to the costs associated with the process of discharging obligations in respect of funds transfers between two or more parties. Refer to losses and the costs of preventing potential losses of value from holding payment instruments or providing services related to payment instruments due to unforeseen circumstances or illegal activity. Refer to the costs of managing the risk of fraud, excluding the costs for insurance against fraud. The components of these costs may include the maintenance and monitoring of “black lists” and other attempts for fraudulent payments; investigating fraud attempts; etc. If such cost is part of costs related to shared services with other products of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas-supervised institution, only include the costs related to the provision of payment service. Refer to all costs for activities that are related to payment instruments and payment-related services and are of foundational and/or supporting nature.

Return costs due to insufficient balance

Cancelation costs

Payments-specific infrastructure and maintenance costs

> Payments-specific IT costs

>

> Settlement costs

Security costs

> Fraud _ prevention costs

D. Costs for supporting activities

Page 1 of 2

## Page 15

MAB - Annex C

[Cot SSS™S~*~*~“—*~‘~d Definition SSOOOOCSC—CSCSCCCC.CCC‘( >» Marketing and I Refer to costs for marketing and information dissemination advertising costs aimed at acquiring new customers and/or campaigns targeting existing customers. It is important to note that this cost element contains two types of costs: i) the costs associated with new customer campaigns are one-off costs that may not recur periodically, and ii) the costs associated with educating and offering new services to existing customers are mainly ongoing, that is, they are recurring costs. Campaigns specifically aiming to educate existing and/or potential customers should also be included under this cost element. If such cost is part of costs related to shared services with other products of the BSI, only include the costs related to the provision of payment service. Refer to costs for responding to customer complaints or providing further clarifications related to a particular payment instrument/transaction account activity/loyalty programs (including staff costs, consumables, etc.), to the extent not included in other cost elements. If such cost is part of costs related to shared services with other products of the BSI, only include the costs related to the provision of payment service.

> Customer support costs

Page 2 of 2 