### # M-2022-044

## Page 1

“af BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. 2022-_ 044 _

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Use and Acceptance of the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys) Digital ID and Printed e-Philippine Identification (ePhillD)

The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), as the main implementing agency of the PhilSys, issued a Public Advisory dated 30 September 2022! (copy attached) on the use and acceptance of the various formats of the PhilSys digital ID, including the printed ePhillD, as a valid and sufficient proof of identity and age, subject to authentication. This allows registrants to immediately enjoy the benefits of being PhilSys-registered, such as better access to more financial and social protection services pursuant to Section 7 (c) (1) of Republic Act (R.A) No. 11055, otherwise known as the Philippine Identification System Act of 2018.

The PSA informed the public and all relying parties that registrants who have successfully registered to PhilSys or those issued with PhilSys Number (PSN) may avail of the ePhillID in its various formats. Registrants can claim their ePhillD subject to its availability, by setting an online appointment, and presenting their transaction slip to their selected PhilSys Registration Centers on the reserved date. The printed ePhillD shows the person's PhilSys Card Number (PCN) and basic demographic information such as last name, given name, middle name and suffix (if available), sex, blood type, marital status (if declared), date and place of birth, front-facing photograph, address, generation date, and a Quick Response (QR) Code. The QR code contains select demographic details and the registrant's front-facing photograph for easier verification. It also uses public-private key cryptography to ensure that the information in the QR code cannot be tampered with.

The printed ePhillD can be authenticated by scanning the QR code via the PhilSys Check?. If the ePhillD is authentic, the PhilSys Check will display a successful verification message and should match the demographic information found in the printed ePhillD, as well as a front-facing photo of the person.

Consistent with R.A. No. 11055 and its Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations, Part Nine of the Manual of Regulations for Banks/Non-Bank Financial Institutions recognizes the identification document issued by the PSA as an official document to establish and verify the identity of a customer. Accordingly, BSFls are reminded that the printed ePhillD shall be honored and accepted, subject to authentication, as the official government-issued identification document of a person and a sufficient proof of identity without requiring another ID.

BSFls are also enjoined to include the printed ePhillD in their list of valid IDs and disseminate extensively to all concerned personnel and branches the subject advisory and display the same in conspicuous places within their premises and other consumer information channels (i.e., official website and social media handles).

Digitally signed 7 ; by Arifa A. Ala Date: 2022.10.14 ### IFA A. ALA 14:45:22 +08'00"

Sector-in-Charge

For guidance and implementation.

14 October 2022

1 Release date 05 October 2022 (https://psa.gov.ph/content/public-advisory-43) "https://verify2.philsys:gov.ph

## Page 2

### REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

### > PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

Reference No. 22UCDMS-FPSUCD-09-002 30 September 2022

### PUBLIC ADVISORY

This is to inform the public and all relying parties of the Philippine Identification System (PhilSys) on the use and acceptance of the various formats of the PhilSys digital ID, including the printed ePhillD, as a valid and sufficient proof of identity and age, subject to authentication.

The PhilSys digital ID is a proactive strategy of the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) to allow registrants to immediately enjoy the benefits of being PhilSys-registered, such as better access to more financial and social protection services pursuant to Section 7 (c ) (1) of the Republic Act No. 11055 (RA 11055), otherwise known as the Philippine Identification System Act of 2018. Registrants who have successfully registered to PhilSys or those issues with PhilSys Number (PSN) may avail of the ePhillD in its various formats. They can claim their ePhillD subject to its availability, by setting an online appointment, and presenting their transaction slip to their selected PhilSys Registration Centers on the reserved date.

The printed ePhillD shows the person's PhilSys Card Number (PCN) and basic demographic information such as last name, given name, middle name and suffix (if available), sex, blood type, marital status (if declared), date and place of birth, front-facing photograph, address, generation date, and a QR Code.

The QR code contains select demographic details and the registrant's front-facing photograph for easier verification. It also uses public-private key cryptography to ensure that the information in the QR code cannot be

tampered with. Digitally signed by Mapa Lo Claire Dennis Sioson Date: 2022.10.05

12:52:08 +08'00'

PSA Complex, East Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 1101 Telephone: (632) 8938-5267 Wwww.psa.gov.ph

## Page 3

Reference No. 22UCDMS-FPSUCD-09-002 Subject: Public Advisory Date: 30 September 2022

The printed ePhillD can be authenticated by scanning the QR code via the PhilSys Check (https://verify.philsys.gov.ph/QrScan/). If the ePhillD is authentic, the PhilSys Check will display a successful verification message and should match the demographic information found in the printed, as well as a front-facing photo of the person.

The printed ePhillD shall be honored and accepted as the official government-issued identification document of a person for his or her transactions in all national government agencies, local government units (LGUs), government-owned and controlled corporations (GOCCs), government financial institutions (GFls), financial institutions, and private sector.

Any person or entity who, without just and sufficient cause, proved to have refused to accept, acknowledge, and/or recognize the printed ePhillD as the only official identification of the holder/possessor thereof shall be penalized in accordance with Section 19 of RA No. 11055.

Please find in the attached Annex an illustration of the ePhillD.

For information and guidance.

Digitally signed by Mapa o Claire Dennis Sioson Date: 2022.10.05 12:52:18 +08'00' DENNIS S. MAPA, Ph.D. Undersecretary

National Statistician and Civil Registrar General

Booeneorc

### Attachment: 1. Sample of the official format of the printed ePhillD

Page 2 of 2

## Page 4

Reference No. 22-UCDMS-FPSUCD-09-002 Subject: Use and Acceptance of ePhillD Annex. Sample of official format of the printed ePhillD

REPUBLIKA NG PILIPINAS Gal @ &

an Republic of the Philippines 7 ### PAMBANSANG PAGKAKAKILANLAN Philippine Identification is

“= @PhilID

### PCN: 1234-5678-9012-3456

Apelyido/Last Name ### CASQU

Kasarian/Sex

Kalagayang Sibil/Marital Status ### FEMALE RRIED

Araw ng Kapanganakan/Date of Birth

Uri ng Dugo/Blood Type ### MARCH 1, 1990 O+

Lugar ng Kapanganakan/Place of Birth ### CITY OF MANDALUYONG, NCR, SECOND

Tirahan/Address ### 80 BAGONG NAYON STREET, MALANDAY, CITY OF ### MARIKINA, NCR, SECOND DISTRICT

ePhillD Generation Date

### 21 DECEMBER 2020

: ‘ 7 Authenticate this ePhillD using PhilSys Check at verify.philsys.gov.ph. Mga Pangalan/Given Names Gitnang Apelyido/Middle Name Suffix If found, please return to the nearest PSA Office. MARISSE CHEZELLA ONINCO Ul mA : Sr PAULINA ey K@), ePHIIID reer gem ### L CUT HERE CUT HERE \ ### REMINDERS PAALALA

1.Present your ePhillD as a valid proof of identity.

2. Your ePhillD contains all the information in the PhillD and has the same functionality and validity.

3.To safekeep your ePhillD, keep it clean and crumple-free or you may have it laminated.

4.Your ePhillD may be folded crosswise or lengthwise. Avoid folding at the QR code.

5.If found, please return to the nearest PSA Office.

Authenticate this ePhillD using PhilSys Check at verify.philsys.gov.ph. & ©, ePhillD BREE»

Hotline 1388 (fees may apply)

1. lpakita ang iyong ePhillD bilang valid proof of identity.

2.Laman ng ePhillD ang impormasyong makikita sa PhillD. Parehong valid at pareho ang gamit o pakinabang ng mga ito.

3. Upang mapangalagaan ang iyong ePhillD, panatilihin itong malinis at walang lukot. Maaari din itong ipa-laminate.

4.Maaaring tupiin ang iyong ePhillD nang pahalang o pahaba. Iwasan ang pagtupi sa QR code.

5.Kung nahanap, ibalik ito sa pinakamalapit na PSA Office.

Generation Date: dd/mm/yyyy 