### # M-2020-046

## Page 1

To

### Subject:

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2020-046

All Banks and Non-Bank Financial Institutions with Quasi-Banking Functions

Transitory Guidelines on the Reporting of Loans to Large Enterprises as

Alternative Compliance with the Reserve Requirements

Pursuant to Circular No. 1087 dated 27 May 2020, loans to large enterprises that are utilized as alternative compliance with the reserve requirements shall temporarily be reported under the accounts set forth in Table 1 in the existing templates of the reserve ### requirement-related reports:

Table 1: Reporting of Loans to Qualified Large Enterprises

BSP Supervised Financial Institution

Report

Account

Universal/ Commercial Banks

Consolidated Daily Report of Condition (CDRC)

f. Investments in Bonds and Other Debt Instruments — Govt. (eligible as reserves)

1. Government Securities — Circular No. 10 dated 12/29/93 (Rec. No. 71)

Thrift Banks

Consolidated Daily Report of Condition (CDRC)

d. Investments in Bonds and Other Debt Instruments — Govt. (eligible as reserves)

1. Government Securities — Circular No. 10 dated 12/29/93 (Rec. No. 71)

Rural/ Cooperative Banks

Weekly Report on Required and Available Reserves ### (WRRAR)

B. Additional Information

2. IBODI for Legal Reserves

a. Bangko Sentral Certificates if Indebtedness (Rec. No. 250)

Non-Bank Financial Institutions I Consolidated Report on I F. Available Reserves

with Quasi-Banking Functions I Required and _ Available I 4. Others (Specify)

(NBQBs) Reserves (CRRAR) (Rec. No. 66) — Loans to Qualified Large Enterprises

Trust Departments of I Special Financing and I Il. Available Reserves

Banks/NBQBs Weekly Reserve Report on I B. Eligible Government Securities

Trust and Other Fiduciary Accounts (TOFA)

(Rec. No. 110)

Page 1 of 2

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines * (632) 708-7701* www.bsp.gov.ph* bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

The reporting of loans to large enterprises under the above-mentioned accounts is solely for purposes of determining compliance with the reserve requirements. It shall take effect on 29 May 2020 until 30 December 2021.

To further clarify the provisions of BSP Memorandum No. M-2020-029 dated 23 April 2020, the loans granted by NBQBs to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) that are utilized as alternative compliance with the reserve requirements shall temporarily be reported under the accounts set forth in Table 2 in the existing templates of ### the reserve requirement-related report, as follows:

Table 2: Reporting of Loans to MSMEs

BSP Supervised Report Account Financial Institution

Non-Bank Financial Institutions I Consolidated Report on I F. Available Reserves with Quasi-Banking Functions I Required and _ Available I 4. Others (Specify) (NBQBs) Reserves (CRRAR) (Rec. No. 65) — Loans to MSMEs

The prevailing guidelines on the submission of the above-mentioned reports shall continue to apply.

For compliance.

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor 01 June 2020

Page 2 of 2 