### # M-2020-067

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2020-067

To : All Covered Banks and Quasi-Banks

Subject : Transitory Guidelines on the Reporting of Certain Exposures in the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) Reports

Pursuant to the amendments to the Risk-Based Capital Adequacy Frameworks for universal and commercial banks (U/KBs) and their subsidiary banks and quasi-banks, and stand-alone thrift banks (TBs), rural banks (RBs) and cooperative banks (Coop Banks) under Circular No. 1084 and Memorandum No. M-2020-034 both dated 28 April 2020, all ### covered banks and quasi-banks shall temporarily report in the CAR reports, the following:

1. Peso-denominated loans, to the extent guaranteed by the Agricultural Guarantee Fund Pool (AGFP) and Agricultural Credit Policy Council (ACPC) shall be afforded a zero percent (0%) risk weight, and shall be temporarily reported in the same manner as a guaranteed exposure of the Trade and Investment Development Corporation of the Philippines (TIDCORP).+

2. For the duration of the regulatory relief under Memorandum No. M-2020-034, current exposures to micro-, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), both ### qualified and unqualified portfolio, shall be temporarily reported, as follows:

### PROMO Qualified MSME loan portfolio reported in I Current MSME loans, both qualified and Item D.(1) of Part Ill.1. Risk Weighted On- I unqualified portfolio to be reported in item Balance Sheet Assets with 75 percent risk I C.(2) of Part lll.1. Risk Weighted On-Balance weight Sheet Assets with 50 percent risk weight

Basel II! CAR Report for U/KBs and their Subsidiary Banks and Quasi-banks Qualified MSME loans reported in Item I Current MSME loans, both qualified and 1.2.a.5.ยง of Part Ill.1. Risk Weighted On- I unqualified portfolio to be reported in Item Balance Sheet Assets under 75 percent risk I 1.2.a.5.iii of Part IIl.1. Risk Weighted On- weight column Balance Sheet Assets under 50 percent risk weight column

Unqualified MSME loans reported in Item 1.2.a.5.iii of Part Illi. Risk Weighted On- Balance Sheet Assets under 100 percent risk weight column

Td

! This is renamed as Philippine Guarantee Corporation (Philguarantee).

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines * (632) 8708-7701* www.bsp.gov.ph* bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

The foregoing transitory reporting shall be reflected in the Basel 1.5 and Basel I!I CAR reports starting with the reference cut-off date as of end-September 2020.

For guidance.

### HUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

_04 September 2020

Page 2 of 2

