### # M-2021-058

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-058

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : ALL UNIVERSAL AND COMMERCIAL BANKS AND ### THEIR SUBSIDIARY BANKS

Subject : Implementation of London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) Transition Plans and Extension of Reporting Requirements on LIBOR-Related Exposures

Relative to the March 2021 announcement that select settings of LIBOR will continue to be published until 30 June 2023, all universal and commercial banks and their subsidiary banks are hereby required to continue to submit quarterly reports on the extent of their remaining LIBOR-related exposures until the reference date of 31 December 2023.

The reporting template has been updated to accommodate the new date of LIBOR cessation. The attached revised template shall be used beginning with the 31 December 2021 reference date. The other submission guidelines issued under Memorandum No. M-2020-083 dated 17 November 2020 shall continue to hold. Banks shall likewise be guided by Memorandum No. M-2021-014 dated 4 March 2021 which provides responses to frequently asked questions on the preparation of the report.

The Report on LIBOR-Related Exposures forms an integral part of a bank's implementation of its LIBOR transition plan, as prescribed under BSP Memorandum M-2020-083. The proper identification of exposures is a crucial step in ensuring that the cessation of LIBOR does not disrupt a bank's operations and the efficient provision of services to its clients and other market counterparties. In this regard, the accuracy and comprehensiveness of a bank’s reporting to the BSP shall be viewed asa reflection of the quality of its LIBOR transition arrangements and shall factor into the BSP’s assessments of its risk management system.

## Page 2

A bank's effective management of the risk arising from LIBOR cessation necessarily involves strategies for actively reducing reliance on the benchmark sufficiently in advance of its discontinuation. At this stage of the transition, banks should be working toward proactively remediating LIBOR-referencing contracts and moving new business to robust alternative reference rates. Moreover, appropriate fallback provisions should already be incorporated into all new contracts.

Banks are reminded of their crucial responsibility for client education on the transition. Communication and outreach initiatives shall be compliant with the BSP’s consumer protection framework.

System and operational enhancements necessitated by new data and valuation requirements arising from the shift to alternative rates should likewise be implemented early to ensure that technical issues will not adversely impact day-to-day operations.

For guidance and strict compliance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.10.26 19:10:54 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

26 October 2021

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

[Bank Name] Part I. LIBOR Exposures

As of [Quarter-end]

### Instructions:

Provide the total gross notional amount and number of the bank's outstanding contracts referencing the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate as of quarter-end. If there are no outstanding exposures, indicate the same by inputting "O" in the relevant cell.

A.By currency

‘if there are contracts referenced to more than one LIBOR (eg. to both USD LIBOR and EUR LIBOR) reflect each such contract in the sum (Item 6) only once to avold double counting, Provide a footnote at the bottom of the sheet (Le, from row 77 onward) explaining the difference between the sum reported in Item 6 and the breakdown of contracts on a per currency basis (items 1to 5).

Page 1 of 3

## Page 4

B. By product [all currency LIBORs]

2/ Corporate loans shall cover agricultural loans; loans to micro, small and medium enterprises, contracts to sell, and loans to private corporations. 3/ These include interbank loans maturing within one year, and loans and receivables arising from short-term repurchase agreements. Other short-term loans, however, should be reported under Item 5 (loans to government). 6 (corporate loans) or 7 (consumer loans). depending on the relevant counterparty. 4/ These refer to assets/liabilities that are interest-bearing or are revalued/marked-to-market for purposes of reporting in the Financial Reporting Package, but are not identified under specific product types in this reporting template.

Page 2 of 3

## Page 5

[Bank Name] Part Il. PHIREF Exposures As of [Quarter-end]_

### Instructions:

Provide the total gross notional amount and number of the bank's outstanding contracts referencing the Philippine Interbank Reference Rate as of quarter-end. If there are no outstanding exposures, indicate the same by inputting "0" in the relevant cell.

V7Corporate loans shall cover agricultural loans; loans to micro, small and medium enterprises, contracts to sell and loans to private corporations. 2/These include interbank loans maturing within one year, and loans and receivables arising from short-term repurchase agreements. Other short-term loans, however, should be reported under loans to government, corporate loans or consumer loans, depending on the relevant counterparty. 3/ These refer to assets/liabilities that are interest-bearing or are revalued/marked-to-market for purposes of reporting in the Financial Reporting Package, but are not identified under specific product types in this reporting template.

Page 3 of 3 