### # M-2021-003

## Page 1

To

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS ### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-003

ALL BSP SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFls)

Subject : Guidelines on the Electronic Submission of the Report on

Reclassification of Debt Securities (RRDS) Out of the Fair Value Category

Pursuant to Memorandum No. M-2020-022 dated 8 April 2020 on the

Reclassification of Debt Securities Measured at Fair Value to the Amortized Cost Category, the following guidelines shall be observed for the electronic submission of the RRDS on or before 29 January 2021.

1.

The prescribed Data Entry Template (DET) and the corresponding Control Prooflist (CP) of _— the RRDS can be downloaded from http://www.bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates.

The DET with its corresponding scanned CP in Portable Document Format (PDF) duly signed by the authorized officials! of the BSFI shall be electronically transmitted on or before 29 January 2021, to the prescribed e-mail address, ### DSA-RRDS@bsp.gov.ph, using the required format for the subject, as follows:

“RRDS<space><Name of BSFI>,<space><Reference Period>”, as_ illustrated below

To : DSA-RRDS@bsp.gov.ph Subject :RRDS <Name of BSFI>, DD MMMM YYYY (e.g. 30 September 2020)

### and using the following prescribed file names and file format:

File File Name File Format Data Entry Template I Reclassification Report xls Control Prooflist Reclassification Report-Control Prooflist pdf

Only electronic submissions originating from officially registered email address/es of the BSFls shall be recognized and accepted by the DSA. The acknowledgment receipt for the submitted RRDS report and its corresponding validation results, upon availability, will be sent to the same registered email address/es.

1 Category A-1 reports shall be signed by the bank’s chief executive officer or, in his absence, by the executive vice president, and by the comptroller or, in his absence, by the chief accountant, or officers holding equivalent positions. (Section 173 of the MorB)

A. Mabini St., Malate 1004 Manila, Philippines « (632) 8708-7701 « www.bsp.gov.ph « bspmail@bsp.gov.ph

## Page 2

4. Hard copy submission shall not be accepted. Covered BSFls that are unable to transmit via email may submit the DET and its accompanying scanned CP using any portable storage device (e.g., USB flash drive) through messengerial or postal ### services within the prescribed deadline addressed to:

The Director

Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas

11th Floor, Multi-Storey Building

BSP Complex, A. Mabini Street, Malate 1004 Manila

Important Reminder ### The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission, among others:

Failure to use/send the correct/updated templates;

Failure to use an officially registered email address; Transmitting to the wrong email address;

Failure to use the prescribed subject line or reporting date; Failure to use the prescribed file names;

Failure to use the correct file formats; and

Incomplete entry in the updated templates.

@ mean ow

For compliance.

Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.01.08 21:40:53 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

08 January 2021

Page 2 of 2 