### # M-2024-026

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. 2024- 026

To : All BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs)

Subject : Acceptance of all formats of the National ID, including the Digital National ID, and Use of the National ID Authentication Services

Republic Act (RA) No. 11055 aims to simplify transactions by eliminating the necessity of presenting other forms of identification when transacting with the government and the private sector. In pursuit of this objective, the Digital National ID, along with authentication platforms, National ID eVerify and National ID Check, were developed and launched by the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), the Office of the Special Assistant to the President for Investment and Economic Affairs (OSAPIEA) and the Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT)!, to foster seamless service delivery and enhance ease of doing business.

Accordingly, the PSA, in its public advisory dated 11 June 2024? (copy attached), informed the public, government and private institutions to accept the presented Digital National ID as a valid and sufficient proof of identity, subject to authentication. All relying parties (RPs) of the PSA are advised to use the National ID Check to verify the authenticity of the Digital National ID.

The Digital National ID allows National ID-registered citizens to immediately enjoy the benefits of being a National ID holder. As part of this initiative, National ID registered citizens can generate their Digital National ID either through the (i) National ID website at https://national-id.gov.ph/; or (ii) eGov PH application. The Digital National ID contains the person’s National ID Card Number’, Digital ID Number’, and basic demographic information, such as the front-facing photograph, full name, date of birth, present address, sex, blood type, marital status, and the Quick Response (QR) Code.

Meanwhile, the National ID Check was developed to be used by all RPs, such as BSFls, to authenticate the National ID. This website is now available, free of charge, and can be accessed at https://everify.gov.oh/check. The website allows users to verify and authenticate the Digital National ID by scanning its QR code. The PSA advised that this website is recommended for low-risk transactions. To ensure higher assurance of verification, RPs are strongly encouraged to onboard with the PSA through an application to the National ID Authentication Services via the National ID eVerify

(https://everify.gov.ph/).

### In view of the foregoing, all BSFls are required to:

1. Accept all formats of the National ID, including the Digital National ID, as an official government-issued identification document of a person and a valid and primary proof of identity, subject to authentication;

'https://philsys.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Press-Release-Digital-Natl-ID%5ELJ-Natl-ID-

eVerify%5ELJ-Natl-ID-Check-_Revl- Vsigned. pdf

? Release date 13 June 2024 ( i ic?

3 The National ID Card Number is a unique and randomly generated 16-digit number which can be used by the public when transacting with government or private institutions for the purpose of authentication.

* A randomly generated six-digit combination of alphanumeric characters assigned to an individual upon generation of their Digital National ID.

Glassification: GENERAL

## Page 2

2. Use the National ID Check (https://everify.gov.ph/check) to verify the authenticity of the National ID and its other recognized formats, including the Digital National ID. BSFlIs are also encouraged to integrate with the National ID System through an application to the National ID Authentication Services.

BSFlIs may directly coordinate with the PSA, through Ms. Emily R. Pagador, Assistant National Statistician of Use Case Development and Manage Service

(UCDMS), via email at e.pagador@psa.gov.ph and ucdms.staff@psa.gov.ph, or at

landline number (02) 8533-7046 for more information or inquiries; and 3. Include the Digital National ID in the list of acceptable valid IDs.

For guidance and implementation.

Digitally signed by _Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2024.08.09 17:54:16 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

09 August 2024

Page 2 of 2

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 3

<aNUIST Eg % Ve,

Ay 5 REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES . ; ### > PHILIPPINE STATISTICS AUTHORITY

etd

Aus

Reference No. 24-UCDMS00-06-020

11 June 2024

### PUBLIC ADVISORY

The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) would like to inform the public, government, and private institutions to accept the presented Digital National ID as a valid and_ sufficient proof of identity subject to authentication.

All Relying Parties (RPs) of the PSA are also advised to use the National ID Check to verify the authenticity of the Digital National ID.

Republic Act (RA) No. 11055 aims to simplify transactions by eliminating the necessity of presenting other forms of identification when transacting with the government and the private sector.

In pursuit of this objective, the Digital National ID, along with the National ID Check website, were developed to foster seamless service delivery and enhance ease of doing business.

1. Digital National ID

The Digital National ID is one of the government's efforts that allows National ID-registered citizens to immediately enjoy the benefits of being a National ID holder.

As part of this initiative, National ID registered citizens can generate their Digital National ID through the National ID website https://national-id.gov.ph/ or through the eGov PH application.

Registered citizens may also take a screenshot of their Digital National ID to obtain a personal copy.

PSA Complex, East Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 1101 hae Telephone: (632) 8938-5267 Www. psa.gov.ph

## Page 4

Reference No. 24-UCDMS00-06-020 Subject: Public Advisory on the Acceptance of the Digital National ID and Utilization of the National ID Check Date: 11 June 2024

Image 1. The front portion of the Digital National 1D’

The Digital National ID includes the following information about the ### registered citizen:

Front (Image 1)

1.

### & WN

### NOOO

National ID Card Number - A unique and randomly generated 16-digit number which can be used by the public when transacting with government or private institutions for the purpose of authentication.

. Front-facing photograph . Present address . Hologram - The Digital National ID incorporates a hologram

alongside the front-facing photograph of the registered citizen for added security.

. Full name, and date of birth . Quick Response (QR) code . Digital ID Number - A_ randomly generated six-digit

combination of alphanumeric characters assigned to an individual upon generation of their Digital National ID.

I Information displayed is dummy only.

Page 2 of 6

## Page 5

Reference No. 24-UCDMS00-06-020 Subject: Public Advisory on the Acceptance of the Digital National ID and Utilization of the National ID Check Date: 11 June 2024

image 2. The back portion of the Digital National 10? Back (Image 2) 1. Sex 2. Blood Type 3. Marital Status 4. QR code 5. Digital ID number

ll. National ID Check

The PSA, in collaboration with the Office of the Special Assistant to the President for Investment and Economic Affairs (OSAPIEA) and the Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT), developed the National ID Check that could be used by all interested RPs to authenticate the National ID. This website functions similarly to PhilSys Check.

The use of the website (https://everify.gov.ph/check) is now available and free of charge. The website allows users to verify and authenticate the Digital National ID by scanning its QR code.

To check the authenticity of the Digital National ID, position the QR code within the camera's frame, ensuring all four corners are visible. The camera will automatically capture the QR code.

There are two possible responses when scanning the QR code of the Digital National ID using the National ID Check.

2 Information displayed is dummy only.

Page 3 of 6

## Page 6

Reference No. 24-UCDMS00-06-020 Subject: Public Advisory on the Acceptance of the Digital National ID and Utilization of the National ID Check Date: 11 June 2024

1. Successful Verification

a

National iD has been Verified 1234567891011213 ta 10 ABC123 ### DELA CRUZ

### JUAN ### MARTINEZ

nia

Maile

January 01, 1990 Single

Le]

Image 3. Pop-up message of successful verification

Image 3 shows the following results when the verification of QR code is successful.

. National ID Card Number . Digital ID Number

. Last Name

. First Name

Middle Name

Suffix

Sex

. Date of Birth

. Marital Status

10. Blood Type

### OMONONARWN=

If the Digital National ID is authentic and has not been tampered with, a pop-up message"National ID has been Verified" will be displayed along with the demographic information of the registered citizen. The information displayed in the verification result should match with the Digital National ID.

If the data matched, it means that the Digital National ID is valid

and should be accepted when transacting with any government or private institutions.

Page 4 of 6

## Page 7

Reference No. 24-UCDMS00-06-020 Subject: Public Advisory on the Acceptance of the Digital National ID and Utilization of the National ID Check Date: 11 June 2024

2. "QR Code could not be read."

©

QR Code could not be read.

The result is probably due to any of the following ### reasons: ¢ The Qe Code ic damoged

© The oration in the OR Code has been tomperead with « The Or Code is not trom Nathan! iD

Note that Ibe retying porty should try scannsng the National © ot lect J omes

¥ the authentication result ore sti! unsuccesstul the cardholder should bring ther Notional ID to theneorest Phiisys Registration Center of email intom@phiisys gov. ph

Got it

Image 4. Pop-up message of unsuccessful verification

Image 4 shows the result when the QR code could not be read and the possible reasons for unsuccessful verification. 1. The QR Code is damaged. 2. The information in the QR Code has been tampered with. 3. The QR Code is not from the National ID.

A pop-up message "QR Code could not be read.” will be displayed for unsuccessful verification. If this result shows, it is recommended that the RP to scan the Digital National ID at least three times.

lf the authentication result is still unsuccessful after the third attempt of scanning, it is recommended that the RP must advise the Digital National ID holder to report the incident to the nearest PSA office.

The website is recommended for low-risk transactions. To ensure higher assurance of verification, RPs are strongly encouraged to onboard with the PSA through an application to the National ID Authentication Services.

The National ID Check is a significant step towards the digitalization of processes in the country by promoting efficiency, security, and transparency in transactions across various sectors.

Page 5 of 6

## Page 8

Reference No. 24-UCDMS00-06-020

Subject: Public Advisory on the Acceptance of the Digital National ID and Utilization of the National ID Check Date: 11 June 2024

For suspected fraudulent activities related to the National ID, the public is encouraged to report the incident to the PSA-PhilSys Registry Office (PRO) through its official communication channels: (1) PhilSys hotline 1388; (2) email at info@philsys.gov.ph; and (3) Facebook page (facebook.com/PSAPhilSysOfficial).

For information and guidance.

CLAIRE DENNIS S. MAPA, PhD Undersecretary tional Statistician and Civil Registrar General

Page 6 of 6

