### # M-2021-059

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-059

To : ALL BSP SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFIs)

Subject : Information Sharing for Fraud Investigations

The financial services industry is massively shifting to digital financial and payment services in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, cyberthreat actors have more avenues and channels to perpetrate cybercriminal activities which exploit vulnerabilities of BSP Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs) and their clients. The BSP’s ongoing cyberthreat surveillance shows that the impact of cyber-attacks and fraudulent schemes increasingly extend over two or more financial institutions simultaneously.

In order to resolve and effectively investigate fraudulent transactions involving two or more BSFls, there needs to be coordinated and transparent information sharing mechanisms in place. However, one of the major hurdles in sharing relevant information, particularly those involving sensitive personal information, in pursuit of fraud investigation, is the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (DPA) or R.A. 10173. Under the DPA, personally identifiable information (PII) of data subjects cannot be freely shared without the data subjects’ consent and without legitimate purpose. These covers all financial accounts such as e-money accounts, credit card accounts, and other non- deposit accounts.

To address this legal concern, the BSP sought clarification and advice from the National Privacy Commission (NPC) with respect to information sharing for fraud investigations. Based on NPC Advisory Opinion No. 2021- ### O26:

a. Sec. 13 (f) of the DPA which allows processing of personal information for the protection of lawful rights and interests of natural or legal persons shall apply to sharing of relevant information for fraud investigations; and

b. The above processing does not require an existing court proceeding, and thus, will not necessarily require a court order.

## Page 2

All BSFls are therefore advised of the above NPC Advisory Opinion and to cooperate and share relevant information to third parties, such as other financial institutions, payment gateway providers, third party service providers and law enforcement agencies, among others in the conduct of

fraud investigations. Information which may be shared/disclosed to the said ### parties, include, but are not limited to:

Name

Home/Delivery Address

Email Address

Mobile or other contact details Bank/financial account information Bank/financial transaction details

>~"pono®D

In sharing the above information, BSFIls should ensure that the basic data privacy principles of transparency, legitimate purpose and proportionality are adhered to. Moreover, an existing court order or proceeding is not a pre-requisite for information sharing to happen.

For information and guidance. Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.11.02 14:48:23 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER

Deputy Governor

O02 November 2021

Page 2 of 2 