### # M-2024-004

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR I FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

MEMORANDUM No. M-2024-004

To : ALL BANKS AND THEIR SUBSIDIARY/AFFILIATE FINANCING AND LEASING ### COMPANIES, BSP-SUPERVISED NON-BANK GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ### INSTITUTIONS, FINANCING/LEASING COMPANIES WITH QUASI-BANKING ### LICENSE THAT ARE NOT SUBSIDIARIES OF BANKS

Subject : Regulatory Incentive for Early Adopters of the Standard Business Loan Application Form (SBLAF)

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 1690 dated 28 December 2023, approved the granting of regulatory incentive with the following guidelines for the early adoption of ### the SBLAF templates as provided in Circular No. 1156 dated 30 September 2022:

1. The regulatory incentive for early adoption by covered entities under Circular No. 1156 shall be in the form of a reduction in the annual supervisory fee (ASF) for each of the years 2024 and 2025. The reduction shall be equivalent to twenty percent (20%) of the assessed ASF or Two Million Pesos, whichever is lower.

2. Early adoption shall mean the full implementation of the SBLAF templates as stipulated in Circular No. 1156, by 28 October 2023! or six months ahead of the start of the mandatory adoption on 28 April 2024.

The SBLAF templates are deemed to have been fully implemented if the following ### conditions are met:

a. The prescribed templates are exclusively used for all covered loan applications under Circular No. 1156; and

b. The prescribed templates, in printed or electronic form, are accessible in all applicable channels (e.g.. branches, offices, agents, online portals, apps) where borrowers may submit their covered loan applications.

The submission of SBLAF reporting requirements as stipulated in Circular No. 1156 is not a condition for the early adoption, thus, the said report will be submitted in the same manner and submission deadline for those covered entities that have not early adopted.

3. To be eligible for the early adoption regulatory incentive, the President or an officer of equivalent rank, of the covered entity shall issue a certification (Annex A) attesting to the covered entity’s full implementation of the SBLAF templates as described above. This certification will be submitted together with a certified true copy of the resolution of the covered entity's Board of Directors (or equivalent management committee in the case of foreign bank branches) on the grant of authority to its representative for the issuance of sworn statement attesting to the covered entity's full implementation of the SBLAF templates as described above.

1 Circular No. 1156 was published on 13 October 2022 at People’s Journal and took effect on 28 October 2022 or 15 calendar days after its publication.

## Page 2

An electronic copy in portable document format (pdf) of the duly signed certification and certified true copy of the aforesaid resolution shall be submitted within fifteen (15) banking days after effectivity of the memorandum to all covered

entities through email address financialinclusion@bsp.gov.ph using an official email

### address of the covered entity, with the following format for the email subject line:

Certification for SBLAF Early Adoption<space><Name of Covered Entity>,<space><Date of Certification in dd month name yyyy>

For Example, To : financialinclusion@bsp.gov.ph Subject : Certification for SBLAF Early Adoption <ABC Bank>, 28

October 2023

4. Non-receipt of an acknowledgement email from the financialinclusion@bsp. gov.ph account on the covered entity’s email within the day shall mean failure of delivery of the message.

5. Post-verification of the covered entity's eligibility for the early adoption incentive may be conducted, as deemed necessary. Any misrepresentation will require the return of the incentive given as well as subject the covered entity to applicable enforcement actions under Sec. 002/002-Q/001-N (Supervisory Enforcement Policy) of the Manual of Regulations for Banks/Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions.

6. This memorandum shall take effect immediately.

For guidance and compliance.

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER eputy Governor

10 january 2024

Page 2 of 2

Classification: GENERAL

## Page 3

Annex A

### CERTIFICATION ON THE ADOPTION OF THE STANDARD BUSINESS LOAN ### APPLICATION FORM (SBLAF) TEMPLATES

Name of BSFI

Address

I hereby certify that the (Name of BSFI) has met the following conditions relating ### to the full implementation of the SBLAF templates:

a. The prescribed templates are exclusively used for all covered loan applications under Circular No. 1156 dated 30 September 2022; and

b. The prescribed templates, in printed or electronic form, are accessible in all applicable channels (e.g., branches, offices, agents, online portals, apps) where borrowers may submit their covered loan applications.

I also certify that I have evaluated/assessed its implementation and that to the best of my knowledge and belief, said implementation equals or exceeds the standards prescribed by the Bangko Sentral rules and regulations.

(Signature over Printed Name) President or an Officer of Equivalent Rank

Date

Classification: GENERAL 