### # M-2023-005

## Page 1

To

Subject

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### PAYMENTS AND CURRENCY MANAGEMENT SECTOR

### MEMORANDUM NO.M-2023-005

All BSP-Supervised Financial institutions (BSFls) Payment Service Providers (PSPs)

Implementation of BSP Circular No. 1055 on the Adoption of a National Quick Response (QR) Code Standard

Pursuant to BSP Circular No, 1055 dated 17 October 2019 on the Adoption of a National Quick Response (QR) Code Standard, the Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 216 ### dated 16 February 2023, approved the following:

1

In line with the thrust of the BSP to ensure the safe, efficient and reliable operations of payment systems in the country as provided in Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11127 or the National Payment Systerns Act, all payment service providers (PSPs), as defined in BSP Circular No. 1055 shall adopt the National QR Code Standard, which is also referred to as “QR Ph” in this Memorandum, in QR- enabled payment services offered to end users.

All PSPs deploying QR Ph-enabled payment services to merchants / businesses shall require such merchants / businesses to display and utilize the QR Ph codes in their payment acceptance. Said PSPs shall provide appropriate product training on QR Ph to their client-merchants, including their store cashiers and managers, specifically on the features and benefits of QR Ph P2M, so that they are able to provide appropriate guidance to customers on the use of QR Ph and enable customers to maximize the benefits of this interoperable National QR Code Standard.

All PSPs participating in the InstaPay automated clearing house (ACH) and offering QR-enabled payment services are required to submit a notarized certification of deployment of QR-enabled payment services compliant (Annex A) or non-compliant (Annex B) to the QR Ph standard including the information on the payment service use-cases that the non-QR Ph codes are being utilized. The certification shall be submitted to the appropriate oversight department of the BSP not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of this Memorandum.

All PSPs deploying non-QR Ph codes, which is also referred to as proprietary QR codes, for payment services shall be allowed to transition to the QR Ph until] 30 June 2023.

Beginning 01 July 2023, all proprietary QR codes for payments services shall be disabled and shall no longer be available to the public.

a. Receiving PSPs - PSPs offering QR-enabied payment services to their client-merchants / businesses shall disable acceptance of payments via non-QR Ph codes or proprietary QR codes. An appropriate notification shall prompt and inform the payor of the cause of an unsuccessful payment transaction caused by the use of a non-QR Ph code.

## Page 2

b. Sending PSPs - The internet platforms and mobile applications of PSPs shall no longer support the scanning of non-QR Ph codes or proprietary QR codes.

6. Pending the full compliance by a PSP of the requirements under this Memorandum by 0] July 2023, no new electronic fund transfer service of such PSP shall be approved until proof of compliance with this Memorandum have been satisfactorily demonstrated by such PSP.

7. PSPs are reminded of Section 1 of BSP Circular No. 1055 on supervisory enforcement actions that the BSP may deploy to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Memorandum and bring about timely corrective actions.

Likewise, PSPs are reminded of the applicable sanctions to erring PSPs as provided In Section 19 of R.A. No. 11127 and Section 37 of R.A. No. 7653, as amended, (The New Central Bank Act, as amended). Thus, in the event that any of the submitted certificate/s of compliance is/are found to be erroneous and/or untrue, the concerned PSP may be meted the appropriate sanction under Section 37 of R.A. No. 7653, as amended, for wiliful making of a false or misleading statement.

8. The Philippine Payments Management Inc. (PPMI), as the accredited Payment System Management Body (PSMB) pursuant to R.A. No. 11127, shall monitor and lead its members towards full adoption of the National QR Code Standard. The

BSP shall work with the PPMI on the appropriate implementation of this Memorandum.

For guidance and strict compliance.

vom

### MAMERTO ANGONAN DeputyIGovernor

43 February 2023

Page 2 of 2

## Page 3

<Name of PSP>

Certification on Compliance with the National QR Code Standard (QR Ph) for QR-enabled Payment Services

We, <Narme of Officer>, President (or Officer of Equivalent Rank) and <Wame of Officer>, Compliance Officer, on behalf of the <Wame of PSP>, with head/principal office address at <Complete Address of Head/Principal Office>, after having been duly sworn to

in accordance with law hereby certify to the best of our knowledge, that <Wame of PSP>.

a. Has adopted the National QR Code Standard (QR Ph) for its QR-enabled payment services;

b. Payment use-case/s compliant to the QR Ph standard include sperson-to-person -to- >,

This certification executed on <Date of Execution>is being submitted in compliance with the requirements of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.

### Signed: Signed: <Name> <Name> President (or Officer of Equivalent Rank) Compliance Officer SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me, this day of at

### _ with affiant exhibiting their valid identification indicated below:

Name Government ID/Passport No. Date/Place Issued Notary Public

Notary Re. No.

Doc. No.

Page No.

Series of

wen,

‘*

## Page 4

<Name of PSP>

Certification on Non-Compliance with the National QR Code Standard (QR Ph) for QR-enabled Payment Services

We, <Name of Officer>, President (or Officer of Equivalent Rank) and <Name of Officer>, Compliance Officer, on behalf of the <Wame of PSP> with head/principal office address at <1 inci, 2, after having been duly sworn to

sComplete Address of Head/Principal Office> in accordance with law hereby certify to the best of our knowledge, that <Wame of PSP>.

a. Has yet to adopt the National QR Code Standard (QR Ph) for its QR-enabled payment services;

b, Payment use-cases where proprietary QR codes are still utilized include Sperson-

= - >, Piease list down all payment use-cases where proprietary QR code is still being ### used: 1. <Payment use-case 1> 2. <Payment use-case 2> 3. Can add more items This certification executed on <Date of Execution>is being submitted in compliance

with the requirements of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.

### Signed: Signed: <Name> <Name> President (or Officer of Equivalent Rank) Compliance Officer SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me, this day of at ### ._ with affiant exhibiting their valid identification indicated below: Name Government 1D/Passport No. Date/Place Issued Notary Public Notary Re. No. “Doc. No. Page No.

Series of 