### # M-2021-054

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-054

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR ### FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SECTOR

To : All Banks and Non-Banks with Quasi Banking Functions Subject : Guidelines on the Submission of the Reports on

Crimes and/or Losses

To facilitate the submission by BSP-Supervised Financial Institutions (BSFIs) of their reports on crimes and/or losses (RCLs) pursuant to existing regulations, all banks and non-banks with quasi- banking functions (NBQBs) shall submit its RCLs in accordance with the following prescribed procedures effective 29 October 2021.

A. Submission Procedures

1. All Banks and NBQBs shall follow the existing manner of reporting a crime and/or loss incident, i.e., one reference number per incident in one data entry template (DET) and Control Prooflist (CP) for the Initial Report and Final Report. The prescribed DET, the CP and the User Guide can be downloaded from www. bsp.gov.ph/SES/reporting_templates.

2. The DET for the RCL (DET-RCL) and the corresponding scanned CP in Portable Document Format (PDF) signed by the authorized official of the reporting Bank or NBQB shall be electronically transmitted within the existing deadline prescribed for initial report' and final report”, as the case may be, to the following prescribed e-mail

### addresses: Type of Institution E-mail Address Universal and Commercial Bank sdckb-rcl@bsp.gov.ph Thrift Bank sdctb-rcl@bsp.gov.ph Rural and Cooperative Bank sdcrb-rcl@bsp.gov.ph ### Non-Bank with Quasi-Banking : Function sdcnbqb-rcl@bsp.gov.ph

### using the required format for the Subject, as follows:

RCL<space>Bank Name

7 “8 r Not later than ten (10) calendar days from knowledge of crime/incident yo Not Jatér than twenty (20) calendar days from termination of investigation -* , . gy g* og yg 9% @ Page 1 of 3

## Page 2

For Example

To

Subject

sdckb-rcl@bsp.gov.ph ### RCL ABC BANK

and using the existing prescribed file naming convention, as ### illustrated below:

File File File Name extension/ Format <reference no.> <report status>.<file DET ; —<rep xls extension/format> <reference no.> <report status>.<file cp ; —<rep pdf extension/format>

For Example

File File Name File Format DET RCL_OOOOO1_052020-0001_INITIAL XIs CP RCL_OOOOO1_052020-0001_INITIAL .pdf

Banks and NBQBs can attach one or several RCLs in one email submission provided that the maximum size limit is 25 megabytes. The size limit pertains to the combined size of all the elements in the

email comprising of text, headers, and attachments.

Banks and NBQBs shall use only emai/ addresses Officially registered with the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) when

electronically submitting

reports. This is in

line with BSP

Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017. The same registered e-mail address/es shall be used by the DSA in

electronically

acknowledging the submitted transmitting the corresponding validation results.

report and

This Memorandum supersedes BSP memoranda M-2016-014 dated 02 November 2016 and M-2016-018 dated 25 November 2016.

. Important Reminders

### The following may result in an erroneous or failed submission:

ano

Failure to use the correct/updated templates

Failure to use an officially registered email address Transmitting to the wrong email address Failure to use the prescribed file names and file format

Page 2 of 3

## Page 3

2. Each DET-RCL shall be accompanied by its corresponding CP. Transmissions without the required CP shall be considered incomplete and unsubmitted.

3. Email submissions exceeding the prescribed size limit shall automatically be rejected by the system, thus considered unsubmitted.

4. Report submissions that do not conform with the above- prescribed procedures shall not be accepted and will be considered non-compliant with the existing reportorial requirements subject to applicable penalties for late and/or erroneous submission of RCL.

Digitally signed by , Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.10.12

20:44:05 +08'00'

### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

For compliance.

12 October 2021

Page 3 of 3 