### # M-2021-034

## Page 1

### BANGKO SENTRAL NG PILIPINAS

### OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR

### MEMORANDUM NO. M-2021-_034 To : ALL BSP-SUPERVISED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BSFIs)

Subject : Guidelines for Obtaining a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) under Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11523, otherwise known as the Financial Institutions Strategic Transfer (FIST) Act

The Monetary Board, in its Resolution No. 610 dated 20 May 2021, approved the following guidelines for BSFls that intend to obtain a COE for purposes of availing of the tax exemptions and privileges for the sale/transfer of non-performing asset/s (NPA) to a FIST corporation (FISTC)! or to an individual’, or for transactions involving dacion en pago by the borrower or by a third party on behalf of a borrower to a BSFI pursuant to the provisions of Section 386 of the Manual of Regulations for Banks (MORB) and Sections 363-Q/307-N of the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions, which implement the provisions of the Republic Act (R.A.) No. 11523 or the FIST Act and its Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR).

]. The COE refers to the certificate issued by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) as to the eligibility of the NPAs [i.e., non-performing loans (NPL) and real and other properties acquired (ROPA)*] of BSFls for purposes of availing of the tax exemptions and privileges,°

All references to FISTCs in these guidelines shall also refer to Special Purpose Vehicles whose applications for reconfirmation have been approved by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to the FIST Act and its IRR. Under Rule 15.2 (9) of the IRR, the transaction shall be limited to either a single-family residential unit ROPA or an empty lot ROPA, or to an NPL secured by a real estate mortgage (REM) on said residential unit or an empty lot. Provided, however, that the tax exemptions and fee privileges shall apply only to one acquisition of NPA (either NPL or ROPA) by an individual and to the subsequent transfer of the same NPA. Under Rule 3.1 (u) of the IRR, NPLs refer to secured or unsecured loans, receivables, and other financial assets of similar nature, including restructured loans, whose principal and/or interest have remained unpaid for at least 90 days after they have become past due or any of the events of default under the loan or restructuring agreement has occurred. The BSFI may also refer to Section 386 of the of the MORB and Sections 363-Q/307-N MORNBEFI for the expanded definition of NPLs pursuant to the FIST Act and its IRR. Under Rule 3.1 (v) of the IRR, ROPAs refer to real and other properties assets acquired by a financial institution (Fl) in settlement of loans and receivables, including real properties, shares of stocks, and personal properties which have been acquired by way of dation in payment (dacion en pago) or judicial or extra-judicial foreclosure or execution of judgment , or enforcement of security interest. oe Under ‘Rule: 15.4 (1) of the IRR, any person, natural or juridical, claiming any of the. tax, ° -~ .° exemptions under the. Act, ‘shall provide the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR)-with the, *-_ "2 i +17 22.". appropriate COE issued by the Appropriate Regulatory Authority (e.g.; the-BSP),-in addition to I -. D> i7-2+ "+ 7-such other documentary requirements pursuant-to the révenue. regulations to be issued-by - I -:

eo 0 @Ve se

### N

4

- a &* ore

Boxe. Se asne wie Paar ete ee ht pad eit Pas Sa

Pe WN Mer ni, tae

Sy * RIE Ee, cag . - yy . se © oer bar sae 8 a “2 “e SO ee ef = ere * * eo Pee ie Se ee ee ee) cd Pye eo *¢ © © @& ay om, it: fe 2 eo e ©@ © @ ee . r PO e ° ee ®@ ®t eee . so o. o "oe e a ee @&8@ @ ee Co Poe o @¢ ee @@ eee eees 0.28% 8:2? eee ee * aa SL Sg eee ® eee e es - o-@ * 5 ees 8 Ce AA ee & "0, were © © OO 6 OOOOH ot te M6," o we ed e* *. ee 8 ®~e i ak eo ek ae eee rr ~ s

## Page 2

pursuant to the provisions of the FIST Act and its IRR. As stated under Rule 25 of the IRR, only assets that have become non-performing on or before 31 December 2022 will be issued a COE.

The following transactions, which pertain to Rule 15.1 (1) to (6) of the IRR, shall be issued a COE to be entitled to tax exemptions and fee privileges:®

a. Transfer of an NPL by a BSFI to a FISTC;

b. Transfer of a ROPA by a BSFI to a FISTC;

c. Dation in payment (dacion en pago) of an NPL by a borrower toa ### BSFI:

d. Dation in payment (dacion en pago) of an NPL by a third-party, on behalf of a borrower, to a BSFI;

e. Transfer of an NPL by a BSFI to an individual; and

f. Transfer of a ROPA by a BSFI to an individual.

Prior to the filing of an application for COE, the BSFI shall coordinate with the BSP, through the appropriate supervising department, its intention/plan to sell/transfer its NPAs pursuant to the FIST Act and its IRR, and to develop a reconciled and final master list of eligible NPAs.

On the Submission of the Master List of Eligible NPAs (Master List)’

4. The BSFls shall submit its Letter of Intent, Master List, NPA schedules,

5.

Corporate Secretary's Certificate on the approval of Board of Directors (BOD) or Board of Trustees (BOT) on the plan to sell/transfer NPAs to a FISTC and/or individual; and sworn certification via email to FIST@bsp.gov.ph, copy furnished the appropriate supervising department of the BSP. The sworn certification shall be signed by the President, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), General Manager (GM) or a senior officer of equivalent rank, or by the country head in the case of a foreign bank branch (FBB), and the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO). Please see Annexes A.1, A.2 and B for the Master List User Guide, Master List Data Entry Template and sworn certification, respectively, and Annex C.1 for the List of Requirements for Submission of Master List.

The BSP will start accepting submission of Master List with reference date as of 31 March 2021 upon effectivity of these guidelines.

7

the Department of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner of the BIR, for purposes of implementing the fiscal incentives under the Act.

Under Rule 15.2 of the IRR, the transaction must have occurred within a period of not more than two (2) years from the date of effectivity of the Act on February 18, 2021, i.e., from February 18, 2021 to February 18, 2023. Thereafter, the tax exemptions and fee privileges shall no longer apply.

A Master List refers to the pool of assets as of a quarter-ended reference date that meets the definition of NPAs under the FIST Act and its IRR, for which the BSFI intends to obtain a COE.

Page 2 of 5

## Page 3

Thereafter, BSFIs may opt to update their Master List as of every quarter-end (e.g., 30 June 2021, 30 September 2021, and so on) up to 31 December 2022, as applicable. The Master List shall be submitted to BSP not earlier than 15 working days after the quarter-ended reference date to ensure that corresponding NPA schedules are available and their balances will reconcile with the BSP-Financial Reporting Package as of the said reference date. The prescribed dates for submission of Master List are as follows:°

Master List Quarter-End Prescribed Dates for Reference Dates Submission (Initial or Updates) 31 Mar 2021 31 May 2021 to 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2021 15 Jul 2021 to 30 Sep 2021 30 Sep 2021 15 Oct 2021 to 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2021 15 Jan 2022 to 31 Mar 2022 31 Mar 2022 15 Apr 2022 to 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2022 15 Jul 2022 to 30 Sep 2022 30 Sep 2022 15 Oct 2022 to 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2022 15 Jan 2023 to 31 Jan 2023

. Once the Master List is validated and verified as acceptable, the BSP shall provide the BSFI with a copy of the Final Master List as reference for its COE application. The Final Master List shall be released/sent via email to the BSFI through its registered email address.

The Final Master List, initial or updated, shall include eligible NPAs on or before the quarter-ended reference date, which assets meet the definition of NPAs pursuant to the FIST Act and its IRR upon evaluation of the appropriate supervising department of the BSP. The COE applied for by the BSFI shall pertain only to NPAs in the said Final Master List. The BSFI shall not submit a COE application to the BSP unless it has received the Final Master List. Please see Item no. 3 for reference. Notwithstanding the BSP’s issuance of the Final Master List, the issuance of a COE to a BSFI shall depend on the evaluation and assessment of the eligibility of NPAs and the absence of an indication that the “true sale” requirement of the NPA sale/transfer under the FIST Act and its IRR is not met based on documents submitted/presented relative to its COE application.

On COE Application

8. Upon receipt of the Final Master List, the BSFI shall file with/send to

the BSP an application for issuance of COE. The soft/scanned copies

8 For master list updates, BSFIs shall submit the Updated Master List as of a quarter-ended reference date, NPA schedules and sworn certification. 2 Submission of initial master list as of 31 March 2021 is left to the discretion of BSFls.

Nonetheless, BSFls are encouraged to develop an initial Master List before 31 December 2021.

Page 3of5

## Page 4

10.

11.

12.

of the application shall be sent via email to FIST@bsp.gov.ph (copy furnished the appropriate supervising department), addressed to the Director/Head of the appropriate supervising department of the BSP. Although no specific form is prescribed, the applicant BSFI shall describe in sufficient detail its proposed transaction, identifying its counterparty/ies and disclosing the terms, conditions and all material commitments related to the transaction. An application shall be filed for each transfer of NPA/s. Please see Annex C.1 for the List of Requirements for Application for COE.

The COE application shall include a written authority to debit the BSFI’s demand deposit account (DDA) for the applicable (non-refundable) processing fee (please refer to item no. 13 for the corresponding fees for each COE application). The BSFI’s DDA shall be automatically debited upon receipt of the application.

In the case of BSFls that do not have DDA with BSP, proof of payment of (non-refundable) processing fee shall be included in the COE application. BSFls are expected to inform/coordinate with the appropriate supervising department of their intention to pay the amount of processing fee in order to receive through email an Order of Payment Number and the details on how to pay.

The COE application shall also be accompanied by a sworn certification (Annex D.1 for FISTC and Annex D.2 for Individual, for the prescribed format/template) signed by the President, CEO, GM ora senior officer of equivalent rank, who is authorized by the BOD/BOT, or by the country head in the case of an FBB, and the CCO certifying, ### among other things, that:

a. The assets to be sold/transferred are NPA/s as defined under the FIST Act and its IRR;

b. The proposed sale/transfer of said NPA/s is a True Sale;

c. The notification requirement to the borrowers and all persons holding prior encumbrance upon the asset mortgaged or subject to security interest has been complied with; and

d. The maximum 30-day period for renegotiation and restructuring of the NPL/s has been complied with.

Items c and d shall only apply to an NPL.

In the case of sale/transfer of NPAs, the application for COE shall be accompanied by a notarized Deed of Transfer or equivalent ### document with the following minimum disclosures/provisions:

a. The sale is on “without recourse” basis;

b. To hold free and harmless the BSP and its officers and staff: and c. Profit sharing agreement, if any.

Page 4of5

## Page 5

13.

14.

15.

In the case of dacion en pago by a borrower or a third party on behalf of a borrower to a BSFI, the application for COE on the NPL being settled shall be accompanied by a notarized Deed of Dacion or equivalent document executed by the borrower, the third party (as applicable), the registered owner of the property, and the BSFI.

### Processing fees for each COE application are as follows:

### a. If the transfer is made to a FISTC:

Type of BSFI Processing Fee Universal and Commercial Banks P 50,000 Thrift Banks 20,000 Rural and Cooperative Banks 15,000 Non-Bank Financial Institutions 10,000

b. P5,000 in case of a dacion en pago arrangement by an individual or corporate borrower; and

c. P5,000 if the transfer involves a single-family residential unit ROPA or an empty lot ROPA or an NPL secured by REM on said residential unit or an empty lot to an individual.

The appropriate supervising department of the BSP shall issue the COE to applicant BSFls within 20 working days from receipt of its application with complete requirements, and a duplicate copy of the COE shall likewise be furnished to the SEC and the BIR. The BSP, SEC and BIR shall coordinate to ensure the integrity of the COE.

The BSP will act on applications for COE issuance that are received on or before 24 February 2023, provided that the transaction must have occurred and the Deed of Transfer/Dacion or equivalent documents have been duly executed by the parties and notarized within the two-year period from the effectivity of the FIST Act, i.e, 18 February 2021 to 18 February 2023.

This Memorandum shall take effect immediately.

Digitally signed by _ Chuchi G. Fonacier Date: 2021.06.04 16:19:38 +08'00' ### CHUCHI G. FONACIER Deputy Governor

04 June 2021

Page 5o0f5

## Page 6

### MASTER LIST USER GUIDE

### GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

### ANNEX AI Page 1 of 6

a. All amounts should be in absolute value (do not round-off). At no time should the amounts be less than zero. b. All entries must be in uppercase fonts. c. At no time should the borrower/issuer/entity/accountee names be entered using acronyms or abbreviations. For non-individuals, use only SEC registered

names.

I. Non-Performing Loans (NPL)

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES Type of Borrower N ] 1 - Corporate 2 - Individual ### Borrower Name C 60 For individuals: ### A B C Surname First Middle Name Name For institutions, do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names ### A Institution Name Borrower T.I.N. N 12 Dash (-) in T.IL.N. should not be included Ex. T.ILN. 135-958-913-O00 should be encoded as 135954913000 Borrower Address C 200 Promissory Note No. T 60 Original Loan Amount (in N 17 Original Loan Amount as indicated Php) in the promissory note Date Granted D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Maturity Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Date of Last Application of D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Payment Should be dated on or before the reference date Loan Type N ] 1 - PDL (Past Due Loan) 2 - ITL (Items in Litigation) 3 - RL (Restructured Loan) Date Classified as PDL D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Should be dated on or before the reference date Date Classified as NPL D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

## Page 7

### ANNEX AI Page 2 of 6

### COLUMN NAME

### TYPE

### LENGTH

### VALID VALUES

Should be dated at least 90 days or more from the date classified as PDL

Should be dated on or before the reference date

Amount Secured (in Php)

17

Amount Unsecured (in Php)

17

Sum of AMTSEC and AMTUNSEC should equal the Outstanding Loan Amount. At no time should any of these be less than zero.

Type of Security

] - REM - Residential 2- REM - Commercial 3 - REM - Agricultural ### 4-CHM

5 - Other Collateral

Outstanding Loan Amount (in Php)

17

Shall be at amortized cost before allowance for credit losses. The amount indicated must equal the sum of amounts shown under “AmtSec’” and “AmtUnsec”.

*Auto Compute

Booked Allowance for

Credit Losses (in Php)

17

Status

] - Outstanding 2- New 3 - Delete

Reason for Deletion from Verified Master List

] - Issued with COE

2 - Reverted to Performing Status 3 - Fully Paid

4 - Foreclosed

5 - Others

Only applicable in subsequent submission of master list of NPAs.

This refers to NPAs in the previously issued Final Master List that should be deleted/removed in the Final Master List as of the current reference date.

If Issued with COE, please specify COE number

25

Indicate the COE no. if the Reason for Deletion from Verified Master List is “Issued with COE”

BSP-FSS Unit No.-MMDDYY- OO000-XXXXxX (i.e., BSP-01-033121- ### OOO0O1-ABCDE)

## Page 8

### ANNEX AI Page 3 of 6

Il. Real and Other Properties Acquired (ROPA)

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES Property already N ] 1 - Yes consolidated in the name 2-No of the BSFI Date when title to property D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD or leave was consolidated in name it blank if not consolidated in the of BSFI name of the BSFI Type of Former N ] 1 - Corporate Borrower/Owner 2 - Individual ### Name of Former Cc 60 For individuals: Borrower/Owner A B Cc Surname First Middle Name Name For institutions, do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names ### A Institution Name T.ILN. of Former N 12 Dash (-) in T.LN. should not be Borrower/Owner included Ex. T.I.N. 135-958-913-O00 should be encoded as 135954913000 Former Borrower/Owner Cc 200 Address Type of Property N ] ] - Land 2- Land with Improvement 3 - Motor Vehicle 4- Jewelry 5 - Others TCT No. / Plate Number / T 30 For not applicable, indicate Not Chassis No. / Not Applicable Applicable Date Booked as ROPA D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Should be dated on or before reference date Original Book Value (In N 17 Php) Accumulated Depreciation N 17 (in Php) Net Book Value (In Php) N 17 *Auto Compute (Difference of the Original Book Value and Accumulated Depreciation before Allowance for Impairment Losses) Booked Allowance for N 17 Impairment Losses (In Php) Latest Appraisal Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

## Page 9

### ANNEX AI Page 4 of 6

### COLUMN NAME

### TYPE

### LENGTH

### VALID VALUES

Latest Appraised Value (In Php)

17

Status

]

] - Outstanding 2- New 3 - Delete

Reason for Deletion from the Verified Master List

] - Issued with COE

2 - Sold to Non-FIST counterparties 3 - Reclassified to bank premises

4 - Others

Only applicable in subsequent submission of master list of NPAs.

This refers to NPAs in the previously issued Final Master List that should be deleted/removed in the Final Master List as of the current reference date.

If Issued with COE, please specify COE number

25

Indicate the COE no. if the Reason for Deletion from Verified Master List is “Issued with COE”

BSP-FSS Unit No.-MMDDYY- OO000-XXXXxX (i.e., BSP-01-033121- ### OOO0O1-ABCDE)

lll. Sales Contract Receivables (SCR)

### COLUMN NAME

### TYPE

### LENGTH

### VALID VALUES

Type of Borrower/ Buyer

### N

]

1 - Corporate 2 - Individual

Name of Borrower/Buyer

Cc

60

### For individuals: ### A B C Surname First Middle Name Name

For institutions, do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names

### A Institution Name

T.ILN. of Borrower/Buyer

12

Dash (-) in T.LN. should not be included

Ex. T.IL.N. 135-958-913-O00 should be encoded as 135954913000

Address of Borrower/Buyer

200

Type of Property

] - Land 2- Land with Improvement 3 - Others

TCT No.

30

Transfer Certificate of Title Number

## Page 10

### ANNEX A.1

Page 5 of 6 ### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES Date when title to property D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD or leave was consolidated in name it blank if not consolidated in the of BSFI name of the BSFI Latest Appraisal Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Latest Appraised Value (In N 17 Php) SCR Contract No. T 30 Original Amount (In Php) N 17 Date Granted D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Maturity Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Date of Last Application of D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Payment Should be dated on or before the reference date Date Classified as PDL D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Should be dated on or before the reference date Date Classified as NPL D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

Should be dated 90 days or more from the date classified as PDL

Should be dated on or before the reference date

Outstanding Amount N 17 Amortized Cost before allowance for credit losses

Booked Allowance for N 17 Credit Losses (In Php)

Status N ] ] - Outstanding 2- New 3 - Delete

Reason for Deletion from N ] 1 - Issued with COE

the Verified Master List 2 - Reverted to Performing SCR

3 - Rescinded and reverted to ROPA 4 - Fully Paid

5 - Others

Only applicable in subsequent submission of master list of NPAs.

This refers to NPAs in the previously issued Final Master List that should be deleted/removed in the Final Master List as of the current reference date.

If Issued with COE, please Cc 25 Indicate the COE no. if the Reason specify COE number for Deletion from Verified Master List is “Issued with COE”

BSP-FSS Unit No.-MMDDYY- OO000-XXXXxX (i.e., BSP-01-033121- ### OOOO1-ABCDE)

## Page 11

### ANNEX AI Page 6 of 6

IV. Financial Assets Acquired in Settlement of Loans and Receivables

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES

Type of Financial Assets N ] ] - Debt Securities

Acquired 2 - Equity Securities

ISIN/Stock Cert. No. T 30

Name of Issuer Cc 60 Do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names

Issue Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Should be dated on or before the reference date

Maturity Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

Par Value (in Php) N 17

Date Booked D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Date of booking of financial assets acquired in settlement/payment of loans and receivables Should be dated on or before the reference date

Book Value (in Php) N 17 Amortized Cost before allowance for impairment losses

Allowance for Impairment N 17

Losses (in Php)

Status N ] ] - Outstanding 2- New 3 - Delete

Reason for Deletion from N ] ] - Issued with COE

the Verified Master List 2 - Sold to Non-FIST Counterparties 3 - Matured and redeemed by issuer 4 - Others Only applicable in subsequent submission of master list of NPAs. This refers to NPAs in the previously issued Final Master List that should be deleted/removed in the Final Master List as of the current reference date.

If Issued with COE, please Cc 25 Indicate the COE no. if the Reason

specify COE number

for Deletion from Verified Master List is “Issued with COE”

BSP-FSS Unit No.-MMDDYY- OO000-XXXXxX (i.e., BSP-01-033121- ### 0OO0O1-ABCDE)

## Page 12

Name of BSFI <BSFI Code>

List of NPLs for Inclusion to Pool of NPAs for Sale/Transfer to FIST Counterparties

As of

Type of Borrower Name

Type of Security

Booked Allowance for Credit Losses

Outstanding Loan Amount

### ANNEX A.2 Page 1of 4

For Updating of Final Master List Only

Status

Reason for Deletion from the Final Master

Borrower Borrower Promissory) Original Loan Maturity Date of Last Date Date Amount Amount List If Issued with Borrower aR Add nee Amount _IDate Granted men Application Classified as I Classified as I Secured I Unsecured (In Php) (In Php) : COE, please dat ress ote No- (In Php) ate of Payment PDL NPLY I (inPhp) I (In Php) 1 Issued with specify COE 1- REM - Residential COE Rabon 2 - REM - Commercial 2 - Reverted to 3 - REM - Agricultural Performing Status 4-CHM 1- Outstanding I3 - Fully Paid 1- Corporate 5 - Other Collateral 140150000000000000 I 140150019000600000 I2- New 4 - Foreclosed 2 - Individual 3 - Delete 5 - Others <numeric> <numeric> <amount> I Date format I Date format I Date format Date format I Date format I <amount>I <amount> <amount> <amount> <Editable if <Editable if in in in in in previous previous CCYYMMDD I CCYYMMDD I CCYYMMDD CCYYMMDD I CCYYMMDD *Auto Compute column (Status) I column (Reason (sum of Amount is Delete else for Deletion *Should be Secured disabled> from the

</ncreasing Rows> NPL as defined under the FIST Act and its IRR

dated at least 90 days or more from the date classified as ### PDL

*Should be dated on or before the reference date

(In Php) and Amount Unsecured (In Php)

Verified Master List) is Issued with COE else disabled>

## Page 13

### ANNEX A.2 Page 2 of 4

Name of BSFI <BSFI Code> List of ROPAs for Inclusion to Pool of NPAs for Sale/Transfer to FIST Counterparties As of Property Type of Property For Updating of Final Master List Only Type of alleen) Former consolidated Booked Allowance Reason for Deletion . Borrower/ oA Accumulated . ‘ in the name I Date when title Name of Former Original Book Value D + ate for Impairment Status from the Final Master Owner Bi lo T.LN. of TCT No. /Plate (In Php) GLEE Le ; of the BSFI to property jorrower/Owner Former . Date in Php, (In Php) osses Latest Latest List Former No/Chassis To Lta}s) Net Book Value (In Php) A A P was Eamemcd) Borrower/ No./Not Booked as (In Php) P Appraisal I Appraised Value If Issued with COE, consolidated in ° Owner Address I; - Land A Li bl ROPA P Date (In Php) 1- Issued with COE please specify COE name of BSFI wner 2 - Land with Pplicable 2- Sold to Non-FIST number Improvement counterparties 3 - tor Vehicle 1- Outstanding I3~ Reclassified to bank 1-Yes 1- Corporate A B c 4- Jewelry 150100000000000000 I 185100000000000000 180100000000000000 2-New premises 2-No 2 - Individual 5 - Other 3 - Delete 4- Others Date format in <numeric> Date format <amount> <amount> <amount> <amount> Date format <amount> <Editable if previous <Editable if previous

### CCYYMMDD

*Automatically "Not Applicable" if previous column (Property already consolidated in the name of the BSFI) is "No"

in ### CCYYMMDD

*Should be dated on or before reference date

*Auto Compute (difference of Original Book

Value (In Php) and Accumulated Depreciation (In Php)

in ### CCYYMMDD

column (Status) is Delete else disabled>

column (Reason for Deletion from the Verified Master List) is Issued with COE else disabled>

<Increasing Rows>

## Page 14

Name of BSFI

<BSFI Code>

List of SCRs for Inclusion to Pool of NPAs for Sale/Transfer to FIST Counterparties As of

<numeric>

Date format in ### CCYYMMDD

Date format in ### CCYYMMDD

<amount>

<amount>

Date format I Date format I Date format in in in ### CCYYMMDD I CCYYMMDD I CCYYMMDD

Date format in ### CCYYMMDD

Date format in ### CCYYMMDD

*Should be dated 90 days or more from the date classified as ### PDL

*Should be dated on or before the reference date

<amount>

<amount>

<Editable if previous column (Status) is Delete else disabled>

### ANNEX A.2 Page 3 of 4

<Editable if previous column (Reason for Deletion from the Verified Master List) is Issued with COE else disabled>

</ncreasing Rows> V NPL as defined under the FIST Act and its IRR

## Page 15

### ANNEX A.2 Page 4 of 4

Name of BSFI

<BSFI Code> List of Financial Assets Acquired in Settlement of Loans and Receivables for Inclusion to Pool of NPAs for Sale/Transfer to FIST Counterparties

As of

Date format in I Date format in <amount> Date format in <amount> <amount> <Editable if previous column <Editable if previous CCYYMMDD CCYYMMDD CCYYMMDD (Status) is Delete else disabled> column (Reason for Deletion from the Verified *Should be Master List) is Issued with dated on or COE else disabled> before the reference date

</ncreasing Rows>

## Page 16

### ANNEX B Sworn Certification Template - Upon Submission of Master List of NPAs

Name of the BSP-Supervised Financial Institution (BSFI)

Pursuant to BSP Memorandum No. M-2021-__, we certify that the Master List of Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) as of quarter-ended , attached as Annex __, isa true and accurate list of NPAs based on [name of BSFI\'s books and records and that they meet the definition of NPAs under Republic Act No. 11523, or the “Financial Institutions Strategic Transfer (FIST) Act,” and _ its Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR).

I/We understand that should the BSP subsequently determine that this Certification or any part thereof is false, /name of BSF//and the undersigned may be subject to applicable penalties and administrative sanctions, including revocation of issued Certificate of Eligibility upon finding of violation, under the FIST Act and its IRR, BSP rules and regulations, as well as other relevant laws, rules and regulations.

Name and Signature Name and Signature President/CEO or Officer of Equivalent Rank Chief Compliance Officer ### Date: Date:

SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this day of 20__ at

, with affiants exhibiting to me their [type of valid identification ### document/s]:

Name Name of Identification Place Issued and No.

President/CEO of Officer of Equivalent Rank Chief Compliance Officer

### NOTARY PUBLIC

Not. Reg. No. Doc. No. Page No. Series of

## Page 17

### I. G

### A.

Annex C.1 Page 1 of 5

List of Requirements for Submission of Master List of Eligible Non-Performing Assets (NPA) and Application for Certificate of Eligibility (COE)'

eneral Instructions

Management shall provide certification if the requirement is not applicable or there is none on file.

The BSFls shall use the prescribed Master List Data Entry Template (DET) and NPA List for COE application DETs which can be downloaded from Attowwwobsp.gov.ph/SES/eporting templates beginning 31 May 2021 and 30 June 2021, respectively. Please see Annex C.2 for NPA List for COE User Guide, Annex C.3 for NPA List COE Sale DET and Annex C.4 for NPA List COE Dacion DET.

Pursuant to BSP Memorandum No. M-2017-028 dated 11 September 2017 and BSP Memoranda Nos. 2017-014 and 2017-015 both dated 31 March 2017, BSFls shall use only e-mail addresses officially registered with the Department of Supervisory Analytics (DSA) in electronically submitting reports. The same registered e-mail addresses shall be used by the BSP in acknowledging the submitted reports.

. Additional schedules/requirements may be requested for reproduction/submission during the course of the master list review/verification and evaluation of COE application.

Il. Master List of Eligible NPAs

### A

. The electronic submissions’ shall be transmitted to FIST@bsp.gov.ph, copy furnished the appropriate supervising department of the BSP, using the following prescribed format as ### subject:

FIST Masterlist <BSFI Name>, <Reference Period in DD Month CCYY>

For Example,

To : FIST@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FIST Masterlist Bank ABC, 37 March 202]

The following are the primary requirements using the prescribed file ### names and file format:

I These requirements are only for the purpose of COE issuance by the BSP. Under Rule 5.1 (j),

the FITSC/Individual, for its purpose, may require from the BSF a different set of Data Package. Also, Rule 13.3 of the IRR provides that, in the transfer of NPAs, the parties shall exercise the requisite due diligence, and any fraud, collusion and irregularity shall be subject to penalties under Section 24 of the FIST Act, as well as other pertinent laws, rules and regulations.

## Page 18

Annex C.1

Page 2 of 5 Requirements File name File Reference period Format ### (MMDDYY) Master List of NPAs ML_Reference Period xls (download the DET) . Letter of Intent LOL Reference Period pdf . Corporate Secretary's I Sec Cert_Reference pdf Certificate on the approval I Period of Board of Directors or Board of Trustees on the plan to sell/transfer NPAs to a FIST Corporation and/or individual . Sworn certification Sworn Cert ML_Reference pdf Period

NPA Schedules (shall tie Up with Financial Reporting Package (FRP) balances as of the same reference period and should contain primary

### master list information, at a minimum):

a. Non-Performing Loans (NPL), reconcile with Schedule 11A of the

### FRP ### With the following details, ata minimum: e Name of Borrower Promissory Note (PN) No. Date Granted Maturity Date Original Amount

Date of Last Application of Payment Date Booked as Past Due Allowance for Credit Losses

e e e e e Outstanding Amount e e e )

1) Loans and I Loans Reference Period pdf Receivables [Classified as i. Past Due or Non- Performing excluding Items in Litigation (ITL); and ii, ITL]

2) Restructured Loans I RL_Reference Period pdf (Classified as i. Past Due or Non- Performing excluding ITL; and ii. ITL), reconcile with Schedule 11B of the ### FRP

b. Sales Contract SCR_Reference Period pdf

Receivables [SCR] (indicate nature and description of property, Transfer Certificate of Title (TCT) No., tax declaration, etc., as applicable)

## Page 19

Annex C.1

Page 3 of 5 Requirements File name File Reference period Format ### (MMDDYY) c. Real and Other ROPA_Reference Period pdf Properties Acquired [ROPA] (indicate nature and description of property, TCT No., Chassis No., etc., as applicable) lil. COE A. The electronic submissions’ shall be transmitted to

FIST@bsp.gov.ph, copy furnished the appropriate supervising department of the BSP, using the following prescribed format as ### subject:

FIST COE <BSFI Name>, <Reference Period in DD Month CCYY>

The Reference Period shall always refer to the reference period of the Final Master List.

For Example.

To : FIST@bsp.gov.ph Subject : FIST COE Bank ABC, 37 March 202]

B. The following are the primary requirements using the prescribed file ### names and file format:

Requirements File name File Reference period Format ### (MMDDYY) 1. NPA List for COE NPA List COE xls

application, based onthe I Sale Reference Period Final Master List as of a

quarter-ended reference NPA List COE xls date Dacion_Reference Period (download the DET) 2. Letter of Application for I COE Reference Period pdf ### COE ### 3. Sworn Certification: a. FIST Corporation (FISTC) I Sworn Cert COE pdf FISTC Reference Period b. Individual Sworn Cert COE pdf Ind_Reference Period 4. Notarized Deed of I Deed Sale Reference pdf

Transfer/Sale or equivalent I Period document with the following minimum ### disclosures/ provisions:

a. The sale is on “without recourse” basis;

## Page 20

Annex C.1 Page 4 of 5

Requirements File name File Reference period Format ### (MMDDYY)

b. To hold free and harmless the BSP and its officers and staff: and

c. Profit sharing agreement, if any.

or Notarized Deed of Dacion I Deed Dacion_Reference pdf or equivalent document Period

5. Board/Committee BR_Reference Period pdf Resolution authorizing/approving the sale/transfer of NPAs to FITSC/individual

C. Supporting Documents (File Name: Supporting Documents.zip)

All supporting documents should be submitted in one (1) zip file ### below are the expected folders and documents inside the zip file:

Requirements Folder Name

1. For NPL NPL_<Promissory Note No.>

### i. Promissory Note/Pawn Ticket:

ii. Restructuring Agreement, if restructured loan;

ili. Ledger balance as certified by the Accounting Officer or billing ### statement (for consumer/retail loans):

iv.Last collection notice sent to the borrower;

v. Proof of booking/classification as past due (e.g., accounting ticket/journal entry)

vi. Proof of delivery or borrower's receipt of prior notice to the borrowers of the NPLs and all persons known to the selling BSFI to be holding prior encumbrances upon the assets mortgaged or subject to security interest on the planned transfer of said assets to FISTC/individuals in accordance with Sec. 12 of the Act and Rule 12.1 of the IRR; and

For Secured NPL

vil. Mortgage contracts and those involving easements and other encumbrances, and their corresponding annotations on the respective TCT or tax declaration if the property is untitled, as applicable.

2. For SCR SCR Name of Buyer/ Borrower

i. Notarized Sales Contract, or equivalent document;

ii. Proof of property's ownership, e.g., TCT or tax declaration for unregistered land; and

ili. Ledger balance as certified by the Accounting Officer or billing

statement. 3. For ROPA ROPA Name of Buyer/ Borrower

i. Certificate of Sale (COS) for Extra-judicial foreclosure/Notarized Deed of Dacion in case of dation in payment/judgment in case of judicial foreclosure for real estate ROPAs with unconsolidated land title;

ii. Proof of property's ownership, e.g., TCT, tax declaration for unregistered land, Certificate of Stocks or other certificate/proof of

## Page 21

Annex C.1 Page 5o0f5

Requirements Folder Name

participation in securities, Official Receipt/Certificate of Registration for motor vehicle; and iii. Latest Real Estate Tax Receipt, as applicable.

## Page 22

### ANNEX C.2 Pagel of5

### NPA LIST FOR COE USER GUIDE

### GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

a. All amounts should be in absolute value (do not round-off). At no time should the amounts be less than zero.

b. All entries must be in uppercase fonts.

c. At no time should the borrower/issuer/entity/accountee names be entered using acronyms or abbreviations. For non-individuals, use only SEC registered names.

I. Non-Performing Loans (NPL)

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES Type of Borrower N ] 1 - Corporate 2 - Individual ### Borrower Name T 60 For individuals: ### A B C Surname First Middle Name Name

For institutions, do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names

### A Institution Name

Borrower T.I.N. N 12 Dash (-) in T.IL.N. should not be included

Ex. T.ILN. 135-958-913-O00 should be encoded as 135954913000

Borrower Address C 200 Promissory Note No. T 30 Original Loan Amount (in N 17 Original Loan Amount as indicated Php) in the promissory note Date Granted D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Date Classified as NPL D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Should be dated on or before the reference date Amount Secured (in Php) N 17 Sum of AMTSEC and AMTUNSEC Amount Unsecured (in N 17 should equal the Outstanding Loan Php) Amount. At no time should any of these be less than zero. . Description Of Coates Type of Security oN. 1 _1- REM - Residential

~2-REM-Commercial ~3- REM - Agricultural _5 - Other Collateral

## Page 23

### ANNEX C.2 Page 2 of 5

### COLUMN NAME

### I TYPE I LENGTH

### VALID VALUES

TCT No.

T.LN. of

Province)

Area (in sqm)

Registered

(St. Brgy. Mun / City, I

30

12

_ Dash (-) in T.LN. should not be included » Ex. T.LN. 135-958-913-O00 should be

_ Transfer Certificate of Title Number

encoded as 135954913000

Outstanding Loan Amount

I Shall be at amortized cost before

Property (include TCT No. registered owner, T.I.N. of registered owner, land area in sqm, as applicable)

### N 17

(in Php) allowance for credit losses. The amount indicated must equal the sum of amounts shown under “AmtSec’” and “AmtUnsec”. *Auto Compute

Booked Allowance for N 17

Credit Losses (in Php)

Description of the Dacion T 200

Il. Real and Other Properties Acquired (ROPA)

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES Property already N ] 1- Yes consolidated in the name 2-No of the BSFI Date when title to property D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD or leave was consolidated in name if blank if not consolidated in the of BSFI name of the BSFI Type of Former N ] 1 - Corporate Borrower/Owner 2 - Individual ### Name of Former Cc 60 For individuals: Borrower/Owner A B Cc Surname First Middle Name Name For institutions, do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names ### A Institution Name T.ILN. of Former N 12 Dash (-) in T.LN. should not be Borrower/Owner included Ex. T.I.N. 135-958-913-O00 should be

encoded as 135954913000

## Page 24

### ANNEX C.2 Page 3of5

Location of Property (St., Brgy., Mun/ City, Province)

Area (in sqm)

Type of Real Property N

included Ex. T.LN. 135-958-913-O00 should be

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES Former Borrower/Owner Cc 200 Address Type of Property N ] ]- Land 2 - Land with Improvement 3 - Motor Vehicle 4 - Jewelry 5 - Others TCT No. / Plate Number / T 30 For not applicable, indicate Not Chassis No. / Not Applicable Applicable . Description of Real Property a uunnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn 1 _1- Residential

_2- Commercial 3 - Agricultural

ncoded as 135954913000

Date Booked as ROPA

I Date format in CCYYMMDD

Should be dated on or before reference date

Php)

Net Book Value (In Php) N 17 Should be the difference of the Original Book Value and Accumulated Depreciation before Allowance for Impairment Losses *Auto Compute

Booked Allowance for N 17

Impairment Losses

(In Php)

Latest Appraisal Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

Latest Appraised Value (In N 17

lll. Sales Contract Receivables (SCR)

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES Type of Borrower/ Buyer N ] 1 - Corporate 2 - Individual ### Name of Borrower/Buyer Cc 60 For individuals:

A B Cc Surname First Middle Name Name

For institutions, do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names

## Page 25

### ANNEX C.2 Page 4of5

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES ### A Institution Name T.ILN. of Borrower/Buyer N 12 Dash (-) in T.LN. should not be included Ex. T.ILN. 135-958-913-O00 should be encoded as 135954913000 Address of Borrower/Buyer Cc 200 Type of Property N ] ]- Land 2 - Land with Improvement 3 - Others TCT No. T 30 Transfer Certificate of Title Number

Description of Real Property

'1- Residential -~2-Commercial

Type of Real Property

Registered Owner

T.ILN. of Registered Owner

Location of Property (St., Brgy., Mun/City, Province)

Area (in sqm)

included _ Ex. T.ILN. 135-958-913-000 should be

3 - Agricultural

Dash (-) in T.LN. should not be

coded as 135954913000

Date when title to property D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

was consolidated in name

of BSFI

Latest Appraisal Date D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

Latest Appraised Value (In N 17

Php)

SCR Contract No. T 30

Original Amount (In Php) N 17

Date Granted D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD

Date Classified as NPL D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Should be dated 90 days or more from the date classified as PDL Should be dated on or before the reference date

Outstanding Amount N 17 Amortized Cost before allowance for credit losses

Booked Allowance for N 17

Credit Losses (In Php)

## Page 26

### ANNEX C.2 Page 5o0f5

IV. Financial Assets Acquired in Settlement of Loans and Receivables

### COLUMN NAME TYPE I LENGTH VALID VALUES

Type of Financial Assets N ] ] - Debt Securities

Acquired 2 - Equity Securities

ISIN/Stock Cert. No. T 30

Name of Issuer Cc 60 Do not use abbreviations or acronyms; use SEC registered names

Date Booked D 8 Date format in CCYYMMDD Date of booking of financial assets acquired in settlement/payment of loans and receivables Should be dated on or before the reference date

Book Value (in Php) N 17 Amortized Cost before allowance for impairment losses

Allowance for Impairment N 17

Losses (in Php)

## Page 27

Name of BSFI

<BSFI Code>

List of Non-Performing Loans As of

<Increasing Rows> V NPL as defined under the FIST Act and its IRR

<numeric>

<numeric>

<amount> I Date format in ### CCYYMMDD

Date format in ### CCYYMMDD

*Should be dated on or before the reference date

<amount>

<amount>

<numeric> 7 <numeric>

### ANNEX C3 Page 1 of 4

<amount> <amount>

*Auto Compute (sum of Amount Secured (In Php) and Amount Unsecured (In Php)

## Page 28

### ANNEX C.3

Page 2 of 4 Name of BSFI <BSFI Code> List of Real and Other Properties Acquired As of Property Type of Description of Real Property already A Former Type of cone idated Borrower/ N [F Property Booxee Allowance ‘i Owner Ebon elt TCTNo/ I Type of Real r Impairment of the BSFI R ate when ute Borrower/Owner TiN of Boer / Plate No/ I Property . Date Net Book Losses Latest A ae d Property we 1-Land Chassis TIN. of Location of Booked as Value (In Php) Appraisal PP! consolidated in Borrower/ Owner . Tax Dec.I Registered Property (St. Area Value 2 - Land with No./ Not Registered ’ ROPA (In Php) Date name of BSFI Owner Address A No. Owner Brgy.,Mun/_ I (insqm) (In Php) Improvement I Applicable . Owner Sy.» ‘ 1- Yes 1 - Corporate = 5 3 - Motor . . City, Province) 2-No 2 - Individual . 1- Residential Valle 2 - Commercial A B c 4 - Jewelry - 180100000000000000 3 - Agricultural 5 - Other Date format in <numeric> Date format <amount> <amount> Date format <amount> CCYYMMDD in in ### CCYYMMDD CCYYMMDD *Automatically "Not *Should be Applicable" if dated on or previous before column reference (Property date already

consolidated in the name of the BSFI) is "No"

<Increasing Rows>

## Page 29

Name of BSFI

<BSFI Code>

List of Sales Contract Receivables As of

Date format I Date format

<amount>

<amount>

Date format

### ANNEX C3 Page 3 of 4

Date format <amount> <amount>

in in ### CCYYMMDD I CCYYMMDD

in ### CCYYMMDD

in ### CCYYMMDD

*Should be dated on or before the reference date

</Increasing Rows> V NPL as defined under the FIST Act and its IRR

## Page 30

Name of BSFI

<BSFI Code>

List of Financial Assets Acquired in Settlement of Loans and Receivables As of

Type of Financial

Assets Acquired ISIN/ Stock Cert No. Name of Issuer Date Booked 1- Debt Securities 2 - Equity Securities

Date format in ### CCYYMMDD

*Should be dated on or before the reference date

</ncreasing Rows>

Book Value (In Php)

<amount>

### ANNEX C3 Page 4 of 4

Allowance for Impairment Losses (In Php)

<amount>

## Page 31

### ANNEX C.4

Name of BSFI <BSFI Code> List of Non-Performing Loans

As of

<numeric> <numeric> I <amount> I Date format I Date format in} <amount>I <amount> <numeric> <numeric> <amount> <amount> in CCYYMMDD CCYYMMDD *Auto Compute *Should be (sum of Amount dated on or Secured before the (In Php) and reference Amount Unsecured date (In Php)

<Increasing Rows> V NPL as defined under the FIST Act and its IRR

## Page 32

### ANNEX D-1 Sworn Certification Template - Upon application of COE (FISTC)

Name of the BSP-Supervised Financial Institution (BSFI)

Relative to /name of BSF/]s application/request for issuance of Certificate of Eligibility (COE) pursuant to Republic Act No. 11523, otherwise known as the “Financial Institutions Strategic Transfer (FIST) Act,” and its Implementing Rules and Regulations ### (IRR), the undersigned certify that:

1. The assets to be sold/transferred, as identified in the attached [Annex/List/Document], are non-performing assets (NPAs), as defined under Section 3 (h) to (j) of the FIST Act and items Rule 3.1 (t) to (v) of its IRR, and have become non-performing on or before 31 December 2022;

2. [Name of BSF/] has neither legal or beneficial ownership of more than 10 percent nor direct or indirect control over /name of transferee FISTC] in accordance with Section 3 (k) of the FIST Act and Rule 3.1 (x) of its IRR;

3. The borrowers of the non-performing loans (NPLs) and all persons holding prior encumbrances upon the assets mortgaged or subject to security interest, if any, have been notified of the proposed sale/transfer and were given 30 days from receipt of notice within which to restructure or renegotiate the terms of the loan pursuant to Section 12(a) of the FIST Act and Rule 12.1 of its IRR;

4. Despite the 30-day period given to the borrower(s), there was no successful renegotiation or restructuring of the subject NPLs between /name of BSFI] and the borrower(s); and

5. The proposed sale/transfer of said NPAs is in the nature of a true sale, in accordance with Section 13 of the FIST Act and Rule 13 of its IRR.

We further certify that the assets to be sold/transferred to (name of the transferee FISTC] are included in the Final Master List of NPAs, as verified by the BSP, as of quarter ended , and that /name of BSF/] has performed the appropriate Know- Your-Customer or anti-money laundering-related procedures on /name of the transferee FISTC].

We understand that should the BSP subsequently determine that this Certification or any part thereof is false, ‘name of BSF/] and the undersigned may be subject to applicable penalties and administrative sanctions, including revocation of issued COE upon finding of violation, under the FIST Act and its IRR, BSP rules and regulations, as well as other relevant laws, rules and regulations.

Name and Signature Name and Signature President/CEO or Officer of Equivalent Rank Chief Compliance Officer ### [Country Head (/n the case of foreign bank branch)I Date:

### Date:

SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this dayof20_ at

### with affiants exhibiting to me their [type of valid identification document/s]:

Name Name of Identification and Place Issued No.

President/CEO of Officer of Equivalent Rank Chief Compliance Officer

### NOTARY PUBLIC

Not. Reg. No. Doc. No. Page No. Series of

## Page 33

### ANNEX D.2 Sworn Certification Template - Upon application of COE - Individual

Name of the BSP-Supervised Financial Institution (BSFI)

Relative to /name of BSF/]s application/request for issuance of Certificate of Eligibility (COE) pursuant to Republic Act No. 11523, otherwise known as the “Financial Institutions Strategic Transfer (FIST) Act,” and its Implementing Rules and Regulations ### (IRR), the undersigned certify that:

1. The asset to be sold/transferred, as identified in the attached [Annex/Document], is a non-performing asset (NPA), as defined under Section 3 (h) to (j) of the FIST Act and Rule 3 (u) to (v) of its IRR, [70 add the phrase“and has become non-performing on or before 31 December 2022” /f the sworn ### statement is executed after 3] December 2022):

2. The subject NPA is a /state exactly whether it is a single-family residential unit or an empty /ot, or a non-performing loan (NPL) secured by a real estate mortgage on a residential unit or an empty lot}

3. The proposed sale/transfer to the (name ofthe transferee individual/is a single transaction covering /state exactly whether one residential unit or empty lot only], and [name of BSFI] has had no other application for issuance of COE with the BSP covering the transfer of any NPA to /name of transferee individual I

4. [To include if the proposed sale/transfer involves NPL secured by a real estate mortgage ona residential unit or an empty lot]/The borrowers of the NPLs and all persons holding prior encumbrances upon the assets mortgaged or subject to security interest, if any, have been notified of the proposed sale/transfer and were given 30 days from receipt of notice within which to restructure or renegotiate the terms of the loan pursuant to Section 12(a) of the FIST Act and Rule 12.1 of its IRR;

5. [To include if the proposed sale/transfer involves NPL secured by a real estate mortgage on a residential unit or an empty lot] Despite the 30-day period given to the borrower(s), there was no successful renegotiation or restructuring of the subject NPLs between /name of BSF//and the borrower(s); and

6. The proposed sale/transfer of said NPA is in the nature of a true sale, in accordance with Section 13 of the FIST Act and Rule 13 of its IRR.

We further certify that the asset to be sold/transferred to [name of the transferee individual] is included in the Final Master List of NPAs, as verified by the BSP, as of quarter ended , and that /name of BSFI] has performed the appropriate Know-Your-Customer or anti-money laundering-related procedures on /name of the transferee individual].

We understand that should the BSP subsequently determine that this Certification or any part thereof is false, ‘name of BSF/] and the undersigned may be subject to applicable penalties and administrative sanctions, including revocation of issued COE upon finding of violation, under the FIST Act and its IRR, BSP rules and regulations, as well as other relevant laws, rules and regulations.

Name and Signature Name and Signature President/CEO or Officer of Equivalent Rank Chief Compliance Officer ### [Country Head (/n the case of foreign bank branch)I Date:

### Date:

SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this dayof20_ at

### with affiants exhibiting to me their [type of valid identification document/s]:

Name Name of Place Issued Identification and No.

President/CEO of Officer of Equivalent Rank Chief Compliance Officer

### NOTARY PUBLIC Not. Reg. No. Doc. No. Page No. Series of

